Title: The Lord Jesus Christ Teaches Us to Minister
Speaker: By Elder JuanГӮВ A. Uceda
Calling: 
Date: April 2023
URL: https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference/2023/04/34uceda?lang=eng

The Lord Jesus Christ said:

ГўВҖВңI am the good shepherd: the good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep.ГӮВ ГўВҖВҰ

ГўВҖВңAs the Father knoweth me, even so know I the Father: and I lay down my life for the sheep.ГўВҖВқ1

In the Greek version of this scripture, the word for good also means ГўВҖВңbeautiful, magnificent.ГўВҖВқ So today, I wish to speak of the Good Shepherd, the Beautiful Shepherd, the Magnificent Shepherd, even Jesus Christ.

In the New Testament, He is called the ГўВҖВңgreat shepherd,ГўВҖВқ2 the ГўВҖВңchief Shepherd,ГўВҖВқ3 and ГўВҖВңthe Shepherd and Bishop of [our] souls.ГўВҖВқ4

In the Old Testament, Isaiah wrote that ГўВҖВңhe shall feed his flock like a shepherd.ГўВҖВқ5

In the Book of Mormon, He is called ГўВҖВңthe good shepherdГўВҖВқ6 and the ГўВҖВңgreat and true shepherd.ГўВҖВқ7

In the Doctrine and Covenants, He declares, ГўВҖВңWherefore, I am in your midst, and I am the good shepherd.ГўВҖВқ8

In our day, President RussellГӮВ M. Nelson has declared: ГўВҖВңThe Good Shepherd lovingly cares for all sheep of His fold, and we are His true undershepherds. Our privilege is to bear His love and to add our own love to friends and neighborsГўВҖВ”feeding, tending, and nurturing themГўВҖВ”as the Savior would have us do.ГўВҖВқ9

More recently, President Nelson has said: ГўВҖВңA hallmark of the LordГўВҖВҷs true and living Church will always be an organized, directed effort to minister to individual children of God and their families. Because it is His Church, we as His servants will minister to the one, just as He did. We will minister in His name, with His power and authority, and with His loving-kindness.ГўВҖВқ10

When the Pharisees and scribes murmured against the Lord, ГўВҖВңsaying, This man receiveth sinners, and eateth with them,ГўВҖВқ11 He responded by presenting three beautiful stories that we have come to know as the parable of the lost sheep, the parable of the lost coin, and the parable of the prodigal son.

It is interesting to note that when Luke, the Gospel writer, is introducing the three stories, he uses the word parable in the singular, not in the plural.12 It appears that the Lord is teaching one unique lesson with three storiesГўВҖВ”stories that present different numbers: 100 sheep, 10 coins, and 2 sons.

The key number in each of these stories, however, is the number one. And a lesson we might take from that number is that you might be an undershepherd for 100 elders and prospective elders in your elders quorum or an adviser to 10 young women or a teacher to 2 Primary children, but you always, always minister to them, care for them, and love them one by one, individually. You never say, ГўВҖВңWhat a foolish sheepГўВҖВқ or ГўВҖВңAfter all, I do not really need that coinГўВҖВқ or ГўВҖВңWhat a rebellious son he is.ГўВҖВқ If you and I have with us ГўВҖВңthe pure love of Christ,ГўВҖВқ13 we, as the man in the story of the lost sheep, will ГўВҖВңleave the ninety and nine ГўВҖВҰ and go after that which is lost, until [ГўВҖВҰ until ГўВҖВҰ until we] find it.ГўВҖВқ14 Or, as the woman in the story of the lost coin, we will ГўВҖВңlight a candle, and sweep the house, and seek diligently [ГўВҖВҰ diligently] till [ГўВҖВҰ till ГўВҖВҰ till we] find it.ГўВҖВқ15 If we have with us ГўВҖВңthe pure love of Christ,ГўВҖВқ we will follow the example of the father in the story of the prodigal son, who, when the son ГўВҖВңwas yet a great way off, ГўВҖВҰ saw him, and had compassion, and ran, and fell on his neck, and kissed him.ГўВҖВқ16

Can we feel the urgency in the heart of the man who lost only one sheep? Or the urgency in the heart of the woman who lost just one coin? Or the ineffable love and compassion in the heart of the prodigalГўВҖВҷs father?

My wife, Maria Isabel, and I served in Central America, being stationed in Guatemala City. There I had the opportunity to meet Julia, a faithful member of the Church. I had the impression to ask her about her family. Her mother died of cancer in 2011. Her father had been a faithful leader in his stake, serving as a bishop and as a counselor to his stake president for several years. He was a true undershepherd of the Lord. Julia told me of his tireless efforts to visit, to minister, and to serve. He indeed rejoiced in feeding and tending the precious sheep of the Lord. He remarried and stayed active in the Church.

A few years later, he went through a divorce, and now he had to attend church alone once again. He felt out of place and also felt that some people were critical of him because of his divorce. He stopped attending church as a negative spirit filled his heart.

Julia spoke highly of this wonderful undershepherd, who was a hardworking, loving, and compassionate man. I vividly remember that a feeling of urgency came to me as she was describing him. I just wanted to do something for that man, a man who had done so much for so many throughout those years.

She gave me his cell phone number, and I began calling him, hoping to have the chance to meet with him personally. After several weeks and many, many phone calls without success, one day he finally answered the phone.

I told him that I had met Julia, his daughter, and that I was captivated by the way he had served, ministered, and loved the precious sheep of the Lord for so many years. He was not expecting a comment like that. I told him that I really wanted to visit with him eye to eye, face to face. He asked me my purpose in proposing such a meeting. I replied, ГўВҖВңI really want to meet the father of such a wonderful lady.ГўВҖВқ Then for a few seconds there was silence over the phoneГўВҖВ”a few seconds that seemed to me like an eternity. He simply said, ГўВҖВңWhen and where?ГўВҖВқ

The day I met him, I invited him to share with me some of his experiences visiting, ministering, and serving the precious sheep of the Lord. As he was recounting some touching stories, I noticed that the tone of his voice changed and the same spirit he had felt so many times as an undershepherd came back. Now his eyes were filled with tears. I knew this was the right moment for me, but I found that I did not know what to say. I prayed in my mind, ГўВҖВңFather, help me.ГўВҖВқ

Suddenly, I heard myself saying, ГўВҖВңBrother Florian, as a servant of the Lord, I apologize for our not being there for you. Please, forgive us. Give us another chance to show you that we do love you. That we need you. That you are important to us.ГўВҖВқ

The following Sunday he was back. He had a long conversation with his bishop and remained active. A few months later he passed awayГўВҖВ”but he had come back. He had come back. I testify that with our SaviorГўВҖВҷs help, we can love His precious sheep and minister to them as He would. And so, there in Guatemala City the Lord Jesus Christ brought back one more precious sheep into His fold. And He taught me a lesson on ministering that I cannot forget. In the name of the Good Shepherd, the Beautiful Shepherd, the Magnificent Shepherd, even the Lord Jesus Christ, amen.