Title: Sustaining of General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers
Speaker: Presented by President Henry B. Eyring
Calling: 
Date: October 2023
URL: https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference/2023/10/21eyring?lang=eng

Brothers and sisters, it is my privilege to present the General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers of the Church for your sustaining vote.

Please express your support in the usual way, wherever you may be. If there are those who oppose, we ask that you contact your stake president.

It is proposed that we sustain Russell Marion Nelson as prophet, seer, and revelator and President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; Dallin Harris Oaks as First Counselor in the First Presidency; and Henry Bennion Eyring as Second Counselor in the First Presidency.

Those in favor may manifest it.

Those opposed, if any, may manifest it.

It is proposed that we sustain Dallin H. Oaks as President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles and M. Russell Ballard as Acting President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles.

Those in favor, please signify.

Any opposed may manifest it.

It is proposed that we sustain the following as the members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles: M. Russell Ballard, Jeffrey R. Holland, Dieter F. Uchtdorf, David A. Bednar, Quentin L. Cook, D. Todd Christofferson, Neil L. Andersen, Ronald A. Rasband, Gary E. Stevenson, Dale G. Renlund, Gerrit W. Gong, and Ulisses Soares.

Those in favor, please manifest it.

Any opposed may so indicate.

It is proposed that we sustain the counselors in the First Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles as prophets, seers, and revelators.

All in favor, please manifest it.

Contrary, if there be any, by the same sign.

As announced previously, we have extended a call to Alexander Dushku to serve as a General Authority Seventy.

Those in favor, please manifest it.

Those opposed, by the same sign.

We also note with appreciation the releases of two Area Seventies whose names can be found on the Church’s website.

Those who wish to join in expressing gratitude to these brethren for their excellent service may manifest it.

It is proposed that we sustain the other General Authorities and Area Seventies, including two new Area Seventies announced earlier this week whose names are listed on the Church’s website, and the General Officers as presently constituted.

All in favor may do so by the uplifted hand.

Those opposed, if any.

Thank you, brothers and sisters, for your continued faith and prayers in behalf of the leadership of the Church.

Changes to Area Seventies

The following Area Seventies were sustained during a leadership session held as part of general conference:

Rogério Boschi and Kirt L. Hodges.

The following Area Seventies were released during a leadership session held as part of general conference:

Henry J. Eyring and Youngjoon Kwon.