Title: Do You Know Why I as a Christian Believe in Christ?
Speaker: By Elder AhmadГӮВ S. Corbitt
Calling: 
Date: April 2023
URL: https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference/2023/04/56corbitt?lang=eng

One evening after work, years ago, I boarded my usual bus home to New Jersey from New York City. The woman I happened to sit next to noticed what I was writing on my computer and asked, ГўВҖВңYou believe in ГўВҖВҰ Christ?ГўВҖВқ I said, ГўВҖВңYes, I do!ГўВҖВқ As we talked, I learned she had just moved to the area from her beautiful Asian country to work in New YorkГўВҖВҷs highly competitive information technology sector.

Naturally, I asked her, ГўВҖВңDo you know why I as a Christian believe in Jesus Christ?ГўВҖВқ She too responded normally and invited me to tell her. But as I went to speak, I had one of those moments where many thoughts flood your mind. This was the first time I would explain the ГўВҖВңwhyГўВҖВқ of Christianity to someone very unfamiliar with it and highly intelligent. I couldnГўВҖВҷt simply say, ГўВҖВңI follow Jesus Christ because He willingly suffered and died for my sins.ГўВҖВқ She might wonder, ГўВҖВңDid Jesus have to die? CouldnГўВҖВҷt God simply forgive and cleanse us of our sins if we asked Him to?ГўВҖВқ

How would you have responded in a few minutes? How would you explain this to a friend? Children and youth: would you please ask your parents or a leader later on, ГўВҖВңWhy did Jesus have to die?ГўВҖВқ And, brothers and sisters, I have a confession to make: despite all I thought I knew about Church doctrine, history, policy, and so on, the answer to this central question to our faith did not come so easily. That day I decided to focus more on what matters most to eternal life.

Well, I informed my new friend1 that we have a spirit in addition to a body and that God is the Father of our spirits.2 I told her we lived with our Heavenly Father before our births into this mortal world.3 Because He loves her and all His children, He made a plan for us to receive a body in the image of His glorified body,4 be part of a family,5 and return to His loving presence to enjoy eternal life with our families6 like He does with His.7 But, I said, we would face two main obstacles in this necessarily fallen world:8 (1)ГӮВ physical deathГўВҖВ”the separation of our bodies from our spirits. Of course, she knew we would all die. And (2)ГӮВ spiritual deathГўВҖВ”our separation from God because our sins, mistakes, and flaws as mortals distance us from His holy presence.9 She related to this too.

I informed her that this was an effect of the law of justice. This eternal law demands that an eternal penalty be paid for every one of our sins, or violations of GodГўВҖВҷs laws or truth, or we could never return to live in His holy presence.10 It would be unjust, and God ГўВҖВңcannot deny justice.ГўВҖВқ11 She understood this but easily grasped that God is also merciful, loving, and eager to bring to pass our eternal life.12 I informed my friend that we would also have a cunning, powerful adversaryГўВҖВ”the source of evil and liesГўВҖВ”opposing us.13 Therefore, someone with infinite godly power to overcome all such opposition and obstacles would need to save us.14

I then shared with her the good newsГўВҖВ”the ГўВҖВңgood tidings of great joy ГўВҖВҰ to all peopleГўВҖВқ15ГўВҖВ”that ГўВҖВңGod so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.ГўВҖВқ16 I testified to my friend, and I witness to you, that Jesus Christ is that Savior, that He had to suffer, die, and rise againГўВҖВ”His infinite AtonementГўВҖВ”to redeem all humanity from physical death17 and to give eternal life with God and our families18 to all who would follow Him. The Book of Mormon declares, ГўВҖВңThus God ГўВҖВҰ gained the victory over death; giving the Son power to make intercession for the children of menГӮВ ГўВҖВҰГӮВ ; being filled with [mercy and] compassionГӮВ ГўВҖВҰГӮВ ; having broken the bands of death, taken upon himself their iniquity and their transgressions, having redeemed them, and satisfied the demands of justice.ГўВҖВқ19

The steps God revealed we must take to follow Jesus and receive eternal life are called the doctrine of Christ. They include ГўВҖВңfaith in Jesus Christ and His Atonement, repentance, baptism [into The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints], receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost, and enduring to the end.ГўВҖВқ20 I shared these steps with my friend, but here are some ways in which prophets and apostles have recently taught how the doctrine of Christ can bless all GodГўВҖВҷs children.

President RussellГӮВ M. Nelson instructed: ГўВҖВңThe pure doctrine of Christ is powerful. It changes the life of everyone who understands it and seeks to implement it in his or her life.ГўВҖВқ21

Elder DieterГӮВ F. Uchtdorf taught, ГўВҖВң[The] For the Strength of Youth [guide] is bold in declaring the doctrine of ГўВҖВҰ Christ [and] inviting you [youth] to make choices based on [it].ГўВҖВқ22

Elder DaleГӮВ G. Renlund taught, ГўВҖВңWe invite missionaries to do what they ask those they teach to do: ГўВҖВҰ apply the doctrine of Christ in their lives [and] get on and stay on the covenant path.ГўВҖВқ23

The doctrine of Christ empowers those who are struggling or feel they donГўВҖВҷt belong in the Church because it helps them, as Elder D.ГӮВ Todd Christofferson stated, ГўВҖВңaffirm: Jesus Christ died for me ГўВҖВҰ [and] loves me.ГўВҖВқ24

Parents, if your child struggles with a gospel principle or prophetic teaching, please resist any type of evil speaking25 or activism toward the Church or its leaders. These lesser, secular approaches are beneath you and can be lethal to the long-term faithfulness of your child.26 It speaks so well of you that you would protect or advocate for your precious child or show signs of solidarity with him or her. But my wife, Jayne, and I know from personal experience that teaching your beloved child why we all desperately need Jesus Christ and how to apply His joyful doctrine is what will strengthen and heal him or her. Let us turn them to Jesus, who is their true advocate with the Father. The Apostle John taught, ГўВҖВңWhosoever ГўВҖВҰ abideth in the doctrine of Christ ГўВҖВҰ hath both the Father and the Son.ГўВҖВқ He then warns us to beware ГўВҖВңif there come any unto you, and bring not this doctrine.ГўВҖВқ27

Jayne and I recently visited the wilderness where Moses held up a serpent of brass before the wandering children of Israel. The Lord had promised to heal all who were bitten by poisonous snakes if they would simply look upon it.28 In holding up the doctrine of Christ before us, the LordГўВҖВҷs prophet is doing the same, ГўВҖВңthat he should heal the nations.ГўВҖВқ29 Whatever the bites or poison or struggles we experience in this mortal wilderness, let us not be as those who, anciently and presently, could have been healed but, sadly, ГўВҖВңwould not look ГўВҖВҰ because they did not believe that it would heal them.ГўВҖВқ30 The Book of Mormon affirms: ГўВҖВңBehold, ГўВҖВҰ this is the way; and there is none other way nor name given under heaven whereby man can be saved in the kingdom of God. And now, behold, this is the doctrine of Christ.ГўВҖВқ31

That evening in New Jersey, sharing why we need Jesus Christ and His doctrine gave me a new sister and her a new brother. We felt the peaceful, confirming witness of the Holy Ghost. Naturally, I invited her to share her contact information and continue the conversation with our missionaries. She was happy to do so.

ГўВҖВңWherefore, how great the importance to make these things known unto the inhabitants of the earth,ГўВҖВқ the Book of Mormon declaresГўВҖВ”to love, share, and invite32 as we gather Israel in all our communities and familiesГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңthat they may know that there is no flesh that can dwell in the presence of God, save it be through the merits, and mercy, and grace [and doctrine] of the Holy Messiah.ГўВҖВқ33 In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.