Title: Sustaining of General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers
Speaker: Presented by President Dallin H. Oaks
Calling: 
Date: April 2023
URL: https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference/2023/04/21oaks?lang=eng

Brothers and sisters, it is my privilege to present the General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers of the Church for your sustaining vote.

Please express your support in the usual way wherever you may be. If there are those who oppose any of the proposals, we ask that you contact your stake president.

It is proposed that we sustain Russell Marion Nelson as prophet, seer, and revelator and President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; Dallin Harris Oaks as First Counselor in the First Presidency; and Henry Bennion Eyring as Second Counselor in the First Presidency.

Those in favor may manifest it.

Those opposed, if any, may manifest it.

It is proposed that we sustain Dallin H. Oaks as President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles and M. Russell Ballard as Acting President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles.

Those in favor, please signify.

Any opposed may manifest it.

It is proposed that we sustain the following as members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles: M. Russell Ballard, Jeffrey R. Holland, Dieter F. Uchtdorf, David A. Bednar, Quentin L. Cook, D. Todd Christofferson, Neil L. Andersen, Ronald A. Rasband, Gary E. Stevenson, Dale G. Renlund, Gerrit W. Gong, and Ulisses Soares.

Those in favor, please manifest it.

Any opposed may so indicate.

It is proposed that we sustain the counselors in the First Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles as prophets, seers, and revelators.

All in favor, please manifest it.

Contrary, if there be any, by the same sign.

The following General Authority Seventies will be released from their assignments and given emeritus status, effective on August 1, 2023: Elders Benjamín De Hoyos, Juan A. Uceda, and Kazuhiko Yamashita.

Those who wish to express gratitude to these brethren and to their wives and families for their years of dedicated service throughout the world may do so by the uplifted hand.

The following Area Seventies have been released from their assignments, effective immediately: J. Kimo Esplin and Alan T. Phillips.

Those who wish to join us in expressing appreciation for their excellent service, please manifest it.

We note with appreciation the other Area Seventies who will complete their service this year and whose names can be found on the Church’s website.

Those who wish to join in expressing gratitude to these brethren for their selfless service may manifest it.

Effective immediately, we hereby release Brothers Ahmad S. Corbitt and Bradley Ray Wilcox from serving as First and Second Counselors in the Young Men General Presidency.

Those who wish to show appreciation to these brethren for their service may so manifest.

We extend releases to the Young Women General Presidency, effective on August 1, 2023, as follows: Bonnie H. Cordon as President, Michelle D. Craig as First Counselor, and Rebecca L. Craven as Second Counselor.

All who wish to join us in expressing appreciation to these sisters for their devoted service, please manifest it.

It is proposed that we sustain the following as General Authority Seventies: Ahmad S. Corbitt, Robert M. Daines, J. Kimo Esplin, Christophe G. Giraud-Carrier, and Alan T. Phillips.

All in favor, please manifest it.

Those opposed, by the same sign.

We note that 61 new Area Seventies were sustained during the general conference leadership meetings on Thursday, March 30, and then announced on the Church’s website.

We invite you to sustain these brethren in their new assignments.

Those in favor, please manifest it.

Any opposed, by the same sign.

It is proposed that we sustain the following as the new Young Women General Presidency, to be effective on August 1, 2023: Emily Belle Freeman as President, Tamara Wood Runia as First Counselor, and Andrea Muñoz Spannaus as Second Counselor.

Those in favor may manifest it.

Any opposed may so signify.

It is proposed that we sustain the following as counselors in the Young Men General Presidency, effective immediately: Bradley Ray Wilcox as First Counselor and Michael T. Nelson as Second Counselor.

All in favor may manifest it.

Any opposed may so manifest.

It is proposed that we sustain the other General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers as presently constituted.

All in favor may do so by the uplifted hand.

Those opposed, if any.

Thank you, brothers and sisters, for your continued faith and prayers on behalf of the leadership of the Church.

Changes to Area Seventies

The following Area Seventies were sustained during a leadership session held as part of general conference:

Isaías Alcala, John D. Amos, Johnny O. Baddoo, Victor O. Bassey, Adrian Bettridge, A. Kaulle Bezerra, Carlos G. Cantero, Emerson B. Carnavale, Orlando A. Castaños, Bun Huoch Eng, Hutch U. Fale, Fernando R. García, Tomás García, C. Alan Gauldin, Aaron T. Hall, Darwin W. Halvorson, Jed J Hancock, Henry Herrera, Ndalamba Ilunga, Samuel M. T. Koivisto, Carlos J. Lantigua, Esau Lara, Stephen J. Larson, Thabo Lebethoa, G. Kenneth Lee, Israel Marin, Wayne E. Maurer, Lee G. McCann II, Robert Mendenhall, Adrian Mendez, Siyabonga Mkhize, Javier F. Monestel, Thomas B. Morgan, Jared V. Ormsby, Z. Rudy Palhua, Arturo D. Palmieri, Kenneth Pambu, Hugo O. Panameño, Kevin J. Parks, Paul Picard, David J. Pickett, Martin Pilka, Irineu E. Prado, Christopher R. Price, Miguel Ribeiro, James N. Robinson, Edward B. Rowe, Robert Schwartz, Gregory A. Scott, Dominic R. Sénéchal, Kofi G. Sosu, Michael B. Strong, Nithya Kumar Sunderraj, Thomas A. Thomas, Alejandro H. Treviño, Nefi M. Trujillo, Chimaroke G. Udeichi, Fernando Valdes, Helton C. Vecchi, Brent B. Ward, and Tomasito S. Zapanta.

The following Area Seventies will be released on or before August 1, 2023:

Richard K. Ahadjie, Duane D. Bell, Hubermann Bien Aimé, Víctor R. Calderón, Michel J. Carter, Daniel Córdova, John N. Craig, William H. K. Davis, Fernando P. Del Carpio, Richard J. DeVries, Kylar G. Dominguez, Torben Engbjerg, Kenneth J. Firmage, Edgar Flores, Silvio Flores, Carlos A. Genaro, Mark A. Gilmour, Sergio A. Gómez, Roberto Gonzalez, Virgilio Gonzalez, Spencer R. Griffin, Marcel Guei, Oleksiy H. Hakalenko, Matthew S. Harding, David J. Harris, Kevin J. Hathaway, José Hernández, Glenn M. Holmes, Richard Neitzel Holzapfel, Okechukwu I. Imo, Michael D. Jones, Pungwe S. Kongolo, Ricardo C. Leite, Aretemio C. Maligon, Edgar A. Mantilla, Lincoln P. Martins, Carl R. Maurer, Daniel S. Mehr II, Glen D. Mella, Tomas S. Merdegia Jr., Allistair B. Odgers, R. Jeffrey Parker, Victor P. Patrick, Denis E. Pineda, Henrique S. Simplicio, Jeffrey H. Singer, Michael L. Staheli, Jeffrey K. Wetzel, Michael S. Wilstead, and David L. Wright.