Title: Walking in Covenant Relationship with Christ
Speaker: By President Emily Belle Freeman
Calling: 
Date: October 2023
URL: https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference/2023/10/42freeman?lang=eng

I was introduced to a trail in Israel by my good friend Ilan. ГўВҖВңItГўВҖВҷs called the Jesus Trail,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңbecause itГўВҖВҷs the path from Nazareth to Capernaum that many believe Jesus walked.ГўВҖВқ I decided right then and there I wanted to walk that trail, so I began planning a trip to Israel.

Six weeks before the trip, I broke my ankle. My husband worried about the injury; my greatest concern was how I would walk the Jesus Trail one month later. I am stubborn by nature, so I didnГўВҖВҷt cancel the plane tickets.

I remember meeting our Israeli guide that beautiful June morning. I hopped out of the van and then pulled out a set of crutches and a knee scooter. Mya, our guide, took one look at my cast and said, ГўВҖВңUh, I donГўВҖВҷt think you can walk this trail in that condition.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMaybe not,ГўВҖВқ I replied. ГўВҖВңBut thereГўВҖВҷs nothing that prevents me from trying.ГўВҖВқ She gave a slight nod, and we began. I love her for that, for believing I could walk the trail broken.

I navigated the steep path and the boulders for a time on my own. Then, moved by the sincerity of my commitment, Mya pulled out a thin rope, tied it to the handlebars of my scooter, and began to pull. She pulled me up the hills, through lemon orchards, and along the banks of the Sea of Galilee. At the journeyГўВҖВҷs end, I expressed gratitude for my sweet guide, who had helped me accomplish something I could have never accomplished on my own.

When the Lord called Enoch to journey through the land and testify of Him, Enoch hesitated.1 He was just a lad, slow of speech. How could he walk that path in his condition? He was blinded by what was broken in him. The LordГўВҖВҷs answer to what hindered him was simple and immediate: ГўВҖВңWalk with me.ГўВҖВқ2 Like Enoch, we must remember that the One who was bruised and broken for us3 will allow mortality to do its work in us, but He doesnГўВҖВҷt ask us to face those challenges alone.4 No matter the heaviness of our story or the current course of our path, He will invite us to walk with Him.5

Think of the young man in a spot of trouble who met the Lord in a wilderness place. Jacob had journeyed far from home. In the dark of night, he had a dream that not only contained a ladder but also held significant covenant promises, including what I like to call the five-finger promise.6 On that night, the Lord stood beside Jacob, introduced Himself as the God of JacobГўВҖВҷs father, and then promised:

I am with you.

I will keep you safe.

I will bring you home again.

I will not leave you.

I will keep my promise to you.7

Jacob had a choice to make. He could choose to live his life simply acquainted with the God of his father, or he could choose to live life in committed covenant relationship with Him. Years later, Jacob testified of a life lived within the LordГўВҖВҷs covenant promises: ГўВҖВңGod ГўВҖВҰ answered me in the day of my distress, and was with me in the way which I went.ГўВҖВқ8 Just as He did for Jacob, the Lord will answer each of us in our day of distress if we choose to tether our life with His. He has promised to walk with us in the way.

We call this walking the covenant pathГўВҖВ”a path that begins with the covenant of baptism and leads to deeper covenants we make in the temple. Perhaps you hear those words and think of checkboxes. Maybe all you see is a path of requirements. A closer look reveals something more compelling. A covenant is not only about a contract, although that is important. ItГўВҖВҷs about a relationship. President RussellГӮВ M. Nelson taught, ГўВҖВңThe covenant path is all about our relationship with God.ГўВҖВқ9

Consider a marriage covenant. The wedding date is important, but equally important is the relationship forged through the life lived together afterward. The same is true with a covenant relationship with God. Conditions have been set, and there will be expectations along the way. And yet He invites each of us to come as we are able, with full purpose of heart, and to ГўВҖВңpress forwardГўВҖВқ10 with Him at our side, trusting that His promised blessings will come. Scripture reminds us that often those blessings come in His own time and in His own way: 38 years,11 12 years,12 immediately.13 As your trail will demand, so His succor will be.14

His is a mission of condescension. Jesus Christ will meet us where we are as we are. This is the why of the garden, the cross, and the tomb. The Savior was sent to help us overcome.15 But staying where we are wonГўВҖВҷt bring the deliverance we seek. Just as He didnГўВҖВҷt leave Jacob there in the dirt, the Lord doesnГўВҖВҷt intend to leave any of us where we are.

His is also a mission of ascension. He will work within us16 to lift us up to where He is and, in the process, enable us to become as He is. Jesus Christ came to lift us.17 He wants to help us become. This is the why of the temple.

We must remember: itГўВҖВҷs not the course alone that will exalt us; itГўВҖВҷs the companionГўВҖВ”our Savior. And this is the why of covenant relationship.

When I was in Israel, I visited the Western Wall. For the Jews, this is the most holy site in Israel. It is all that remains of their temple. Most wear their finest when they visit this sacred place; their choice of garment is a symbol of their devotion to their relationship with God. They visit the wall to read scripture, to worship, and to pour out their prayers. The plea for a temple in their midst consumes their every day, their every prayer, this longing for a house of covenant. I admire their devotion.

When I returned home from Israel, I listened more closely to the conversations around me regarding covenants. I noticed people asking, Why should I walk a covenant path? Do I need to enter a house for making covenants? Why do I wear the holy garment? Should I invest in a covenant relationship with the Lord? The answer to these good and important questions is simple: it depends on what degree of relationship you want to experience with Jesus Christ.18 Each of us will have to discover our own response to those deeply personal questions.

Here is mine: I walk this path as a ГўВҖВңbeloved daughter of heavenly parents,ГўВҖВқ19 divinely known20 and deeply trusted.21 As a child of the covenant, I am eligible to receive promised22 blessings. I have chosen23 to walk with the Lord. I have been called24 to stand as a witness of Christ. When the path feels overwhelming, I am strengthened25 with enabling grace. Each time I cross the threshold of His house, I experience deeper covenant relationship with Him. I am sanctified26 with His Spirit, endowed27 with His power, and set apart28 to build His kingdom. Through a process of daily repentance and weekly partaking of the sacrament, I am learning to become steadfast29 and to go about doing good.30 I walk this path with Jesus Christ, looking forward to the promised day when He will come again. Then I will be sealed His31 and lifted up as a holy32 daughter of God.

This is why I walk the covenant path.

This is why I cling to covenant promises.

This is why I enter His covenant house.

This is why I wear the holy garment as a constant reminder.

Because I want to live in committed covenant relationship with Him.

Perhaps you do too. Begin where you are.33 DonГўВҖВҷt let your condition hinder you. Remember, pace or placement on the path are not as important as progress.34 Ask someone you trust who is on the covenant path to introduce you to the Savior they have come to know. Learn more of Him. Invest in the relationship by entering into covenant with Him. It doesnГўВҖВҷt matter your age or your condition. You can walk with Him.

After we finished walking the Jesus Trail, Mya did not take back her rope. She left it tied to my scooter. For the next few days, my teenage nephews and their friend took turns pulling me through the streets of Jerusalem.35 They made sure I did not miss out on the stories of Jesus. I was reminded of the strength of the rising generation. We can learn from you. You have a genuine desire to know the guide, Jesus Christ. You trust the strength of the rope that tethers us to Him. You are unusually gifted in gathering others to Him.36

Thankfully, we walk this path together, calling out encouragement along the way.37 As we share our personal experience with Christ, we will strengthen personal devotion. Of this I bear witness in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.