Title: Sustaining of General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers
Speaker: Presented by President Henry B. Eyring
Calling: 
Date: October 2021
URL: https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference/2021/10/21eyring?lang=eng

Brothers and sisters, as announced, I will now present the General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers of the Church for your sustaining vote.

Please express your vote in the usual way wherever you may be. If there are those who oppose any of the proposals, we ask that you contact your stake president.

It is proposed that we sustain Russell Marion Nelson as prophet, seer, and revelator and President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; Dallin Harris Oaks as First Counselor in the First Presidency; and Henry Bennion Eyring as Second Counselor in the First Presidency.

Those in favor may manifest it.

Those opposed, if any, may manifest it.

It is proposed that we sustain Dallin H. Oaks as President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles and M. Russell Ballard as Acting President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles.

Those in favor, please signify.

Any opposed may manifest it.

It is proposed that we sustain the following as the members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles: M. Russell Ballard, Jeffrey R. Holland, Dieter F. Uchtdorf, David A. Bednar, Quentin L. Cook, D. Todd Christofferson, Neil L. Andersen, Ronald A. Rasband, Gary E. Stevenson, Dale G. Renlund, Gerrit W. Gong, and Ulisses Soares.

Those in favor, please manifest it.

Any opposed may so indicate.

It is proposed that we sustain the counselors in the First Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles as prophets, seers, and revelators.

All in favor, please manifest it.

Contrary, if there be any, by the same sign.

We have released Elders J. Devn Cornish, Timothy J. Dyches, David F. Evans, Robert C. Gay, James B. Martino, and Terence M. Vinson as General Authority Seventies and grant them emeritus status.

Those who wish to express gratitude to these Brethren and their families for their dedicated service may do so by the uplifted hand.

We note that Elder Dean M. Davies, who passed away on August 31, 2021, would have been released as a General Authority Seventy this conference. We extend to Sister Darla Davies and to the family our heartfelt condolences and appreciation for Elder Davies’s tireless service.

We also note with appreciation the Area Seventies who have completed their service during this past year.

Those who wish to join in expressing gratitude to these brethren for their excellent service may manifest it.

It is proposed that we sustain the other General Authorities, Area Seventies—including two new Area Seventies announced earlier this week in newsroom.ChurchofJesusChrist.org—and General Officers as presently constituted.

All in favor, please manifest it.

Those opposed, if any.

Thank you for your continued faith and prayers in behalf of the leaders of the Church.

The following Area Seventies were sustained during a leadership meeting held as part of general conference:

Pedro E. Hernández and Charden Ndinga.

The following Area Seventies were released during a leadership meeting held as part of general conference:

Guillermo I. Guardia and Gaëtan Kelounou.

The following Area Seventies were released on August 1, 2021:

P. David Agazzani, Quilmer A. Agüero, Frederick O. Akinbo, Nelson Ardila, Richard C. Baquiran, Dong Chol Beh, Matthieu Bennasar, Lawrence P. Blunck, Luis J. Camey, Douglas B. Carter, Aroldo B. Cavalcante, Luis C. Chaverri, Ulises Chávez, Brent J. Christensen, Douglas L. Dance, M. T. Ben Davis, Marc C. Davis, J. Scott Dorius, M. Dirk Driscoll, Antonio F. Faúndez, José A. Fernández, Matías D. Fernández, Candido Fortuna, Bruce E. Ghent, Michael A. Gillenwater, Michael D. Groll, Daniel G. Hamilton, Tom-Atle Herland, Raymond S. Heyman, Jerat K. C. Igwe, Christophe Kawaya, John A. Koranteng, Ming-Shun Kuan, Todd S. Larkin, Juan J. Levrino, Carlo M. Lezano, Felix A. Martinez, J Vaun McArthur, Kevin K. Miskin, Helamán Montejo, Michael R. Murray, Ryan V. Pagaduan, A. Moroni Pérez, Carlos E. Perrotti, Mark P. Peteru, Thomas T. Priday, Brian L. Rawson, Rene Romay, Blake M. Roney, Luis G. Ruiz, Maximo A. Saavedra Jr., Pedro A. Sanhueza, Eric J. Schmutz, Paul H. Sinclair, Benjamin T. Sinjoux, David L. Stapleton, Daniel Texeira, Seiji Tokuzawa, Maxsimo C. Torres, Jesús Vélez, Carlos Villarreal, Paul H. Watkins, Robert K. William, C. Dale Willis, Kevin J Worthen, and Luis G. Zapata.