Title: You Can Gather Israel!
Speaker: By AhmadГӮВ S. Corbitt
Calling: 
Date: April 2021
URL: https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference/2021/04/32corbitt?lang=eng

Almost three years ago, President RussellГӮВ M. Nelson invited all youth of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints ГўВҖВңto enlist in the LordГўВҖВҷs youth battalion to help gather IsraelГўВҖВқ on both sides of the veil. He said, ГўВҖВңThat gathering is the most important thing taking place on earth today.ГўВҖВқ1 I am absolutely sure you youth can do thisГўВҖВ”and do it very wellГўВҖВ”because of (1) something about your identity and (2) an enormous power within you.

Forty-one years ago, two missionaries from our Church felt led to a house in New Jersey, in the United States. In time, miraculously, both parents and all 10 children were baptized. In the prophetГўВҖВҷs words, they ГўВҖВңlet God prevailГўВҖВқ2 in their lives. I should say ГўВҖВңour lives.ГўВҖВқ I was the third child. I was 17 years old when I decided to make a permanent covenant to follow Jesus Christ. But guess what else I decided? I would not serve a full-time mission. That was too much. And this could not be expected of me, right? I was a brand-new Church member. I had no money. Besides, although I had just graduated from the toughest high school in nearby West Philadelphia and faced down some dangerous challenges, I was secretly terrified of leaving home for two whole years.

But I had just learned that I and all of humanity had lived with our Heavenly Father as His spirit sons and daughters before our birth. Others needed to know, as I knew, that He longed for all His children to enjoy eternal life with Him. So, before anyone was on earth, He presented all with His perfect plan of salvation and happiness, with Jesus Christ as our Savior. Tragically, Satan opposed GodГўВҖВҷs plan.3 According to the book of Revelation, ГўВҖВңthere was war in heavenГўВҖВқ!4 Satan cunningly deceived a third part of Heavenly FatherГўВҖВҷs spirit children into letting him prevail instead of God.5 But not you! The Apostle John saw that you overcame Satan ГўВҖВңby the word of [your] testimony.ГўВҖВқ6

Knowing my true identity, helped by my patriarchal blessing, gave me the courage and faith to accept President SpencerГӮВ W. KimballГўВҖВҷs invitation to gather Israel.7 It will be the same for you, dear friends. Knowing you overcame Satan by the word of your testimony before will help you love, share, and invite8 now and alwaysГўВҖВ”to invite others to come and see, come and help, and come and belong, as that same war for the souls of GodГўВҖВҷs children rages on.

What about the enormous power within you? Think of this: you shouted for joy9 to come to a fallen world where all would face physical and spiritual death. We would never be able to overcome either on our own. We would suffer from not only our own sins but othersГўВҖВҷ sins too. Humanity would experience virtually every imaginable type of brokenness and disappointment10ГўВҖВ”all with a veil of forgetfulness over our minds and the worldГўВҖВҷs worst enemy continuing to target and tempt us. All hope for returning resurrected and clean to GodГўВҖВҷs holy presence rested entirely upon one Being keeping His promise.11

What empowered you to go forward? President HenryГӮВ B. Eyring taught, ГўВҖВңIt took faith in Jesus Christ to sustain the plan of happiness and Jesus ChristГўВҖВҷs place in it when you knew so little of the challenges that you would face in mortality.ГўВҖВқ12 When Jesus Christ promised He would come into mortality and give His life to gather13 and save us, you did not simply believe Him. You ГўВҖВңnoble spiritsГўВҖВқ14 had such ГўВҖВңexceedingly great faithГўВҖВқ that you saw His promise as sure.15 He could not lie, so you saw Him as if He had already shed His blood for you, long before He was born.16

In JohnГўВҖВҷs symbolic words, you ГўВҖВңovercame [Satan] by the blood of the Lamb.ГўВҖВқ17 President DallinГӮВ H. Oaks taught that in that world ГўВҖВң[you] saw the end from the beginning.ГўВҖВқ18

Suppose one day before you leave for school, one of your parents makes a true promise that you can have your favorite food when you return home! You are excited! While in school you imagine eating that food, and you can already taste it. Naturally, you share your good news with others. Looking forward to going home makes you so happy that the tests and challenges of school seem light. Nothing can take away your joy or make you doubt because of how sure the promise is! Similarly, before you noble spirits were born, you learned to see ChristГўВҖВҷs promises in this sure way, and you tasted of His salvation.19 Your great faith is like muscles that get stronger and bigger the more you exercise them, but they are already inside you.

How can you awaken your giant faith in Christ and use it to gather Israel now and triumph over Satan again? By relearning to look forward and see with that same certainty the LordГўВҖВҷs promise to gather and save today. He mainly uses the Book of Mormon and His prophets to teach us how. Long before Christ, the Nephite ГўВҖВңprophets, andГӮВ ГўВҖВҰ priests, andГӮВ ГўВҖВҰ teachersГӮВ ГўВҖВҰ [persuaded the people] to look forward unto the Messiah, and believe in him to come as though he already was.ГўВҖВқ20 The prophet Abinadi taught, ГўВҖВңAnd now if Christ had not come into the world, speaking of things to come as though they had already come, there could have been no redemption.ГўВҖВқ21 Like Alma, Abinadi ГўВҖВңlook[ed] forward with an eye of faithГўВҖВқ22 and saw GodГўВҖВҷs sure promise of salvation as already fulfilled. They ГўВҖВңovercame [Satan] by the blood of the Lamb, andГӮВ ГўВҖВҰ the word of their testimonyГўВҖВқ long before Christ was born, just as you did. And the Lord gave them power to invite and gather Israel. He will do the same for you as you look forward in faith, see Israel gatheredГўВҖВ”globally and in your own ГўВҖВңcirclesГўВҖВқ23ГўВҖВ”and invite all!

Hundreds of missionaries built upon their powerful premortal faith in Christ by envisioning those they contacted or taught dressed in baptismal and temple clothing. In a talk titled ГўВҖВңBegin with the End in Mind,ГўВҖВқ24 President Nelson shared a personal example of doing this and instructed mission leaders to teach our missionaries to do the same. Knowing they exercised this great faith in Jesus Christ in the premortal world immensely helped our dear missionaries ГўВҖВңhear HimГўВҖВқ25 and activate their enormous faith to gather Israel as the Lord promised.

Of course, imagining lies harms faith.26 My friends, intentionally envisioning or viewing things that conflict with who you really are, especially pornography, will weaken your faith in Christ and, without repentance, could destroy it. Please use your imaginations to increase faith in Christ, not ruin it.

The Children and Youth program is a prophetic tool to help you youth power up your great faith. President Oaks taught, ГўВҖВңThis program is designed to help you become more like our Savior in four areas: spiritual, social, physical, and intellectual.ГўВҖВқ27 As you youth leadГўВҖВ”leadГўВҖВ”in living the gospel, caring for others, inviting all to receive the gospel, uniting families for eternity, and organizing fun activities,28 the great faith in Christ you had in the premortal life will resurface and empower you to do His work in this life!

Also, personal goals, ГўВҖВңespecially short-term goals,ГўВҖВқ29 help you reignite your powerful faith. When you set a good goal, you are looking forward, as you did before, and seeing what your Heavenly Father wants you or another to become.30 Then you plan and work hard to achieve it. Elder QuentinГӮВ L. Cook taught, ГўВҖВңNever underestimate the importance of planning, setting goalsГӮВ ГўВҖВҰГӮВ , and [inviting others]ГўВҖВ”all with an eye of faith.ГўВҖВқ31

The choice is yours! The Lord said of you, ГўВҖВңThe power [to choose] is in them.ГўВҖВқ32 Elder NeilГӮВ L. Andersen explained, ГўВҖВңYour faith will grow not by chance, but by choice.ГўВҖВқ33 He also said, ГўВҖВң[Any] honest questions [you may have]ГӮВ ГўВҖВҰ will be settled with patience and an eye of faith.ГўВҖВқ34

I testify that (1) your true identity and (2) the enormous power of faith in Christ within you will enable you to ГўВҖВңhelp prepare the world for the SaviorГўВҖВҷs return by inviting all to come unto Christ and receive the blessings of His Atonement.ГўВҖВқ35 May we all share the joy of the Book of MormonГўВҖВҷs sure promise:

ГўВҖВңThe righteous that hearken unto theГӮВ ГўВҖВҰ prophets, andГӮВ ГўВҖВҰ look forward unto Christ with steadfastnessГӮВ ГўВҖВҰ notwithstanding all persecutionГӮВ ГўВҖВҰ shall not perish.

ГўВҖВңBut [Christ]ГӮВ ГўВҖВҰ shall heal them, and they shall have peace with him.ГўВҖВқ36

In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.