Title: Sustaining of General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers
Speaker: Presented by President Dallin H. Oaks
Calling: 
Date: April 2021
URL: https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference/2021/04/21oaks?lang=eng

Brothers and sisters, I will now present the General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers of the Church for your sustaining vote.

Please express your vote in the usual way wherever you may be. If there are those who oppose any of the proposals, we ask that you contact your stake president.

It is proposed that we sustain Russell Marion Nelson as prophet, seer, and revelator and President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; Dallin Harris Oaks as First Counselor in the First Presidency; and Henry Bennion Eyring as Second Counselor in the First Presidency.

Those in favor may manifest it.

Those opposed, if any, may manifest it.

It is proposed that we sustain Dallin H. Oaks as President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles and M. Russell Ballard as Acting President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles.

Those in favor, please signify.

Any opposed may manifest it.

It is proposed that we sustain the following as members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles: M. Russell Ballard, Jeffrey R. Holland, Dieter F. Uchtdorf, David A. Bednar, Quentin L. Cook, D. Todd Christofferson, Neil L. Andersen, Ronald A. Rasband, Gary E. Stevenson, Dale G. Renlund, Gerrit W. Gong, and Ulisses Soares.

Those in favor, please manifest it.

Any opposed may so indicate.

It is proposed that we sustain the counselors in the First Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles as prophets, seers, and revelators.

All in favor, please manifest it.

Contrary, if there be any, by the same sign.

As a matter of information, Elders Robert C. Gay and Terence M. Vinson will be released from their service as members of the Presidency of the Seventy, effective on August 1, 2021.

Those who wish to express gratitude to these Brethren for their dedicated service may do so by the uplifted hand.

The following Area Seventies have been released: Elders Sean Douglas, Michael A. Dunn, Clark G. Gilbert, Alfred Kyungu, Carlos G. Revillo Jr., and Vaiangina Sikahema.

Those who wish to join us in expressing appreciation for their excellent service, please manifest it.

We have released the Primary General Presidency as follows: Joy D. Jones as President, Lisa L. Harkness as First Counselor, and Cristina B. Franco as Second Counselor.

All who wish to join us in expressing appreciation to these sisters for their devoted service, please manifest it.

It is proposed that we sustain Elders Paul V. Johnson and S. Mark Palmer to serve as members of the Presidency of the Seventy, effective on August 1, 2021.

Those in favor may manifest it.

Any opposed, by the same sign.

It is proposed that we sustain the following as General Authority Seventies: Sean Douglas, Michael A. Dunn, Clark G. Gilbert, Patricio M. Giuffra, Alfred Kyungu, Alvin F. Meredith III, Carlos G. Revillo Jr., and Vaiangina Sikahema.

All in favor, please manifest it.

Those opposed, by the same sign.

It is proposed that we sustain the new Area Seventies as announced by the Church earlier this week.

Those in favor, please manifest it.

Any opposed, by the same sign.

It is proposed that we sustain as the new Primary General Presidency Camille N. Johnson as President, Susan H. Porter as First Counselor, and Amy A. Wright as Second Counselor.

Those in favor, manifest it.

Any opposed may so signify.

It is proposed that we sustain the other General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers as presently constituted.

All in favor, please manifest it.

Those opposed, if any.

Again, those who oppose any of the proposals are invited to contact their stake presidents.

Thank you for your continued faith and prayers in behalf of the leaders of the Church.

The following Area Seventies were sustained during a leadership session held as part of general conference:

Daniel P. Amato, Rodney A. Ames, Marcelo Andrezzo, Samuel Annan-Simons, Patrick Appianti-Sarpong, Eduardo M. Argana, Steven C. Barlow, Erik Bernskov, Mark E. Bonham, K. Bruce Boucher, Jonathan G. Cannon, Juan P. Casco, Gregorio E. Casillas, Fernando R. Castro, Ranulfo Cervantes, Thomas K. Checketts, Ross A. Chiles, Benjamin Cinco, David C. Clark, Félix Conde, Jorge A. Contreras, Corbin E. Coombs, Moroni Costa, Leandro J. Curaba, B. Corey Cuvelier, Ernesto A. Deyro Jr., J. Kimo Esplin, Tomás Familia, Michael D. Groll, John Gutty, Oleksiy H. Hakalenko, Tommy D. Haws, Levi W. Heath, Brian J. Holmes, Hal C. Hunsaker, Yuichi Imai, Bruce H. Ixcot, Paul H. Jean Baptiste, Dong Hwan Jeong, Frederick M. Kamya, Gaëtan Kelounou, David S. Kinard, Julio E. Lee, R. Darío Lorenzana, Odair José Castro de Lira, Enrique M. Loo, Hernán D. Lucero, Bartolome Madriaga, Douglas P. Maxfield, Héctor Méndez, Steven C. Merrell, Quinn S. Millington, Siegfried A. Naumann, Ricardo J. Nieves, Lorenzo E. Norambuena, Enefiok Ntem, Charles O. Oide, Juan L. Orquera, Roberto C. Pacheco, Damon Page, Franck A. Poznanski, T. Michael Price, Alexandre Ret, Frédéric T. Riemer, Russell A. Robinson, Leonardo S. Rojas, Douglas A. Rozsa, Lee M. Shumway, Robert H. Simpson, Vance K. Smith, Martiniano S. Soquila Jr., Victor H. Suazo, Raul Tapia, Carlos Torres, Bruno E. Vásquez, M. Travis Wolsey, and Richard G. Youngblood.