Title: One Percent Better
Speaker: By Elder MichaelГӮВ A. Dunn
Calling: 
Date: October 2021
URL: https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference/2021/10/54dunn?lang=eng

For more than a century, the national bicycle racing teams of Great Britain had been the laughingstock of the cycling world. Mired in mediocrity, British riders had managed only a handful of gold medals in 100 years of Olympic competitions and had been even more underwhelming in cyclingГўВҖВҷs marquee event, the three-week long Tour de FranceГўВҖВ”where no British rider had prevailed in 110 years. So sorry was the plight of British riders that some bike manufacturers refused to even sell bikes to the Brits, fearing it would forever sully their hard-won reputations. And despite devoting enormous resources into cutting-edge technology and every newfangled training regimen, nothing worked.

Nothing, that is, until 2003, when a small, largely unnoticed change occurred that would forever alter the trajectory of British cycling. That new approach would also reveal an eternal principleГўВҖВ”with a promiseГўВҖВ”regarding our ofttimes perplexing mortal quest to improve ourselves. So what happened in British cycling that has great relevance to our personal pursuit to be better daughters and sons of God?

In 2003, Sir Dave Brailsford was hired. Unlike previous coaches who attempted dramatic, overnight turnarounds, Sir Brailsford instead committed to a strategy he referred to as ГўВҖВңthe aggregation of marginal gains.ГўВҖВқ This entailed implementing small improvements in everything. That meant constantly measuring key statistics and targeting specific weaknesses.

ItГўВҖВҷs somewhat akin to the prophet Samuel the LamaniteГўВҖВҷs notion of ГўВҖВңwalk[ing] circumspectly.ГўВҖВқ1 This broader, more holistic view avoids the trap of being myopically fixated on just the obvious problem or sin at hand. Said Brailsford, ГўВҖВңThe whole principle came from the idea that if you broke down everything you could think of that goes into riding a bike, and then improved it by 1ГӮВ percent, you will get a significant increase when you put them all together.ГўВҖВқ2

His approach aligns well with that of the Lord, who taught us the criticalness of the 1ГӮВ percentГўВҖВ”even at the expense of the 99ГӮВ percent. Of course, He was teaching the gospel imperative to seek out individuals in need. But what if we applied that same principle to the very sweet and savory second principle of the gospel, repentance? Rather than being stymied by the churn and dramatic swings between sin and repentance, what if our approach was to narrow our focusГўВҖВ”even as we broadened it? Instead of trying to perfect everything, what if we tackled just one thing?

For example, what if in your new wide-angle awareness, you discover you have neglected a daily reading of the Book of Mormon? Well, instead of desperately plowing through all 531 pages in one night, what if we committed instead to read just 1ГӮВ percent of itГўВҖВ”thatГўВҖВҷs just five pages a dayГўВҖВ”or another manageable goal for your situation? Could aggregating small but steady marginal gains in our lives finally be the way to victory over even the most pesky of our personal shortcomings? Can this bite-sized approach to tackling our blemishes really work?

Well, acclaimed author James Clear says this strategy puts the math squarely in our favor. He maintains that ГўВҖВңhabits are the ГўВҖВҳcompound interest of self-improvement.ГўВҖВҷ If you can get just one percent better at something each day, by the end of a yearГӮВ ГўВҖВҰ you will be 37 times better.ГўВҖВқ3

BrailsfordГўВҖВҷs small gains began with the obvious, such as equipment, kit fabrics, and training patterns. But his team didnГўВҖВҷt stop there. They continued to find 1ГӮВ percent improvements in overlooked and unexpected areas such as nutrition and even maintenance nuances. Over time, these myriads of micro-betterments aggregated into stunning results, which came faster than anyone could have imagined. Truly, they were onto the eternal principle of ГўВҖВңline upon line, precept upon precept, here a little and there a little.ГўВҖВқ4

Will little adjustments work that ГўВҖВңmighty changeГўВҖВқ5 that you desire? Properly implemented, IГўВҖВҷm 99ГӮВ percent certain they will! But the one caveat with this approach is that for small gains to aggregate, there must be a consistent, day-in and day-out effort. And although we wonГўВҖВҷt likely be perfect, we must be determined to mirror our persistence with patience. Do that, and the sweet rewards of increased righteousness will bring you the joy and peace you seek. As President RussellГӮВ M. Nelson has taught: ГўВҖВңNothing is more liberating, more ennobling, or more crucial to our individual progression than is a regular, daily focus on repentance. Repentance is not an event; it is a process. It is the key to happiness and peace of mind. When coupled with faith, repentance opens our access to the power of the Atonement of Jesus Christ.ГўВҖВқ6

As to repentanceГўВҖВҷs prerequisite of faith, the scriptures are clear. All thatГўВҖВҷs initially required is a mere ГўВҖВңparticle of faith.ГўВҖВқ7 And if we can muster this ГўВҖВңmustard seedГўВҖВқ8 mentality, we too can expect unexpected and exceptional improvements in our lives. But remember, just as we would not attempt to go from being Attila the Hun to Mother Teresa overnight, so too should we reorient our patterns of improvement incrementally. Even if the changes needed in your life are wholesale, begin at a small scale. ThatГўВҖВҷs especially true if you are feeling overwhelmed or discouraged.

This process is not always accomplished in a linear fashion. Even among the most determined there may be setbacks. Having experienced the frustration of this in my own life, I know that it can sometimes feel like 1ГӮВ percent forward and 2ГӮВ percent back. Yet if we remain undaunted in our determination to consistently eke out those 1ГӮВ percent gains, He who has ГўВҖВңcarried our sorrowsГўВҖВқ9 will surely carry us.

Obviously, if we are involved in grievous sins, the Lord is clear and unequivocal; we need to stop, get help from our bishop, and turn away from such practices immediately. But as Elder DavidГӮВ A. Bednar enjoined: ГўВҖВңSmall, steady, incremental spiritual improvements are the steps the Lord would have us take. Preparing to walk guiltless before God is one of the primary purposes of mortality and the pursuit of a lifetime; it does not result from sporadic spurts of intense spiritual activity.ГўВҖВқ10

So, does this pocket-sized approach to repentance and real change really work? Is the proof in the pedaling, so to speak? Consider whatГўВҖВҷs happened to British cycling in the past two decades since implementing this philosophy. British cyclists have now won the storied Tour de France an astonishing six times. During the past four Olympic Games, Great Britain has been the most successful country across all cycling disciplines. And in the recently concluded Tokyo Olympics, the UK won more gold medals in cycling than any other country.

Photographs of British cyclists by (clockwise from top left) Friedemann Vogel, John Giles, and Greg Baker/Getty Images

But far outshining worldly silver or gold, our precious promise down our roadway to the eternities is that we will indeed ГўВҖВңtriumph in Christ.ГўВҖВқ11 And as we commit to making small but steady improvements, we are promised ГўВҖВңa crown of glory that fadeth not away.ГўВҖВқ12 With basking in that undimmable luster beckoning, I invite you to examine your life and see whatГўВҖВҷs stagnated or slowed you on the covenant pathway. Then look broader. Seek modest but makeable fixes in your life that might result in the sweet joy of being just a little better.

Remember, David used just one small stone to take down a seemingly invincible giant. But he had four other stones at the ready. Similarly, Alma the YoungerГўВҖВҷs wicked disposition and eternal destiny were altered by just one simple, salient thoughtГўВҖВ”a remembrance of his fatherГўВҖВҷs teachings about the saving grace of Jesus Christ. And so it is with our Savior, who, though sinless, ГўВҖВңreceived not of the fulness at first, but continued from grace to grace, until he received a fulness.ГўВҖВқ13

It is He who knows when a sparrow falls that is likewise focused on the minute as well as the momentous moments in our lives and who is ready right now to assist you in whatever your 1ГӮВ percent quest is coming out of this conference. Because every effort to change we makeГўВҖВ”no matter how tiny it seems to usГўВҖВ”just might make the biggest difference in our lives.

To this end, Elder NealГӮВ A. Maxwell taught, ГўВҖВңEach assertion of a righteous desire, each act of service, and each act of worship, however small and incremental, adds to our spiritual momentum.ГўВҖВқ14 Truly, it is by small, simple, and, yes, even just 1ГӮВ percent things that great things can be brought to pass.15 Ultimate victory is 100ГӮВ percent certain, ГўВҖВңafter all we can do,ГўВҖВқ16 through the might, merits, and mercy of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. I so testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.