Title: Burying Our Weapons of Rebellion
Speaker: By Elder D.ГӮВ Todd Christofferson
Calling: 
Date: October 2024
URL: https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference/2024/10/21christofferson?lang=eng

The Book of Mormon records that approximately 90 years before the birth of Christ, the sons of King Mosiah began what would be a 14-year mission to the Lamanites. Unsuccessful efforts had been made over many generations to bring the Lamanite people to a belief in the doctrine of Christ. This time, however, through the miraculous interventions of the Holy Spirit, thousands of the Lamanites were converted and became disciples of Jesus Christ.

We read, ГўВҖВңAnd as sure as the Lord liveth, so sure as many as believed, or as many as were brought to the knowledge of the truth, through the preaching of Ammon and his brethren, according to the spirit of revelation and of prophecy, and the power of God working miracles in themГўВҖВ”yea, I say unto you, as the Lord liveth, as many of the Lamanites as believed in their preaching, and were converted unto the Lord, never did fall away.ГўВҖВқ

The key to the enduring conversion of this people is stated in the next verse: ГўВҖВңFor they became a righteous people; they did lay down the weapons of their rebellion, that they did not fight against God any more, neither against any of their brethren.ГўВҖВқ

This reference to ГўВҖВңweapons of rebellionГўВҖВқ was both literal and figurative. It meant their swords and other weapons of war but also their disobedience to God and His commandments.

The king of these converted Lamanites expressed it this way: ГўВҖВңAnd now behold, my brethren, ГўВҖВҰ it has been all that we could do ГўВҖВҰ to repent of all our sins and the many murders which we have committed, and to get God to take them away from our hearts, for it was all we could do to repent sufficiently before God that he would take away our stain.ГўВҖВқ

Note the kingГўВҖВҷs wordsГўВҖВ”not only had their sincere repentance led to forgiveness of their sins, but God also took away the stain of those sins and even the desire to sin from their hearts. As you know, rather than risk any possible return to their prior state of rebellion against God, they buried their swords. And as they buried their physical weapons, with changed hearts, they also buried their disposition to sin.

We might ask ourselves what we could do to follow this pattern, to ГўВҖВңlay down the weapons of [our] rebellion,ГўВҖВқ whatever they may be, and become so ГўВҖВңconverted [to] the LordГўВҖВқ that the stain of sin and the desire for sin are taken from our hearts and we never will fall away.

Rebellion can be active or passive. The classic example of willful rebellion is Lucifer, who, in the premortal world, opposed the FatherГўВҖВҷs plan of redemption and rallied others to oppose it as well, ГўВҖВңand, at that day, many followed after him.ГўВҖВқ It is not hard to discern the impact of his continuing rebellion in our own time.

The Book of MormonГўВҖВҷs unholy trio of anti-ChristsГўВҖВ”Sherem, Nehor, and KorihorГўВҖВ”provide a classic study of active rebellion against God. The overarching thesis of Nehor and Korihor was that there is no sin; therefore, there is no need for repentance, and there is no Savior. ГўВҖВңEvery man prosper[s] according to his genius, and ГўВҖВҰ every man conquer[s] according to his strength; and whatsoever a man [does is] no crime.ГўВҖВқ The anti-Christ rejects religious authority, characterizing ordinances and covenants as performances ГўВҖВңlaid down by ancient priests, to usurp power and authority.ГўВҖВқ

A latter-day example of willful rebellion with a happier ending is the story of WilliamГӮВ W. Phelps. Phelps joined the Church in 1831 and was appointed Church printer. He edited several early Church publications, wrote numerous hymns, and served as a scribe to Joseph Smith. Unfortunately, he turned against the Church and the Prophet, even to the point of giving false testimony against Joseph Smith in a Missouri court, which contributed to the ProphetГўВҖВҷs imprisonment there.

Later, Phelps wrote to Joseph asking for forgiveness. ГўВҖВңI know my situation, you know it, and God knows it, and I want to be saved if my friends will help me.ГўВҖВқ

In his reply the Prophet stated: ГўВҖВңIt is true that we have suffered much in consequence of your behavior. ГўВҖВҰ However, the cup has been drunk, the will of our Heavenly Father has been done, and we are yet alive. ГўВҖВҰ Come on, dear brother, since the war is past, for friends at first are friends again at last.ГўВҖВқ

With sincere repentance, William Phelps buried his ГўВҖВңweapons of rebellionГўВҖВқ and was received once more in full fellowship, never again to fall away.

Perhaps the more insidious form of rebellion against God, however, is the passive versionГўВҖВ”ignoring His will in our lives. Many who would never consider active rebellion may still oppose the will and word of God by pursuing their own path without regard to divine direction. I am reminded of the song made famous years ago by singer Frank Sinatra with the climactic line ГўВҖВңI did it my way.ГўВҖВқ Certainly in life there is plenty of room for personal preference and individual choice, but when it comes to matters of salvation and eternal life, our theme song ought to be ГўВҖВңI did it GodГўВҖВҷs way,ГўВҖВқ because truly there is no other way.

Take, for instance, the SaviorГўВҖВҷs example regarding baptism. He submitted to baptism as a demonstration of loyalty to the Father and as an example to us:

ГўВҖВңHe showeth unto the children of men that, according to the flesh he humbleth himself before the Father, and witnesseth unto the Father that he would be obedient unto him in keeping his commandments.ГӮВ ГўВҖВҰ

ГўВҖВңAnd he said unto the children of men: Follow thou me. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, can we follow Jesus save we shall be willing to keep the commandments of the Father?ГўВҖВқ

There is no ГўВҖВңmy wayГўВҖВқ if we are to follow ChristГўВҖВҷs example. Trying to find a different course to heaven is like the futility of working on the Tower of Babel rather than looking to Christ and His salvation.

The swords and other weapons that the Lamanite converts buried were weapons of rebellion because of how they had used them. Those same kinds of weapons in the hands of their sons, being used in defense of family and freedom, were not weapons of rebellion against God at all. The same was true of such weapons in the hands of the Nephites: ГўВҖВңThey were not fighting for monarchy nor power but ГўВҖВҰ were fighting for their homes and their liberties, their wives and their children, and their all, yea, for their rites of worship and their church.ГўВҖВқ

In this same way, there are things in our lives that may be neutral or even inherently good but that used in the wrong way become ГўВҖВңweapons of rebellion.ГўВҖВқ Our speech, for example, can edify or demean. As James said:

ГўВҖВңBut the tongue [it seems] can no man tame; it is an unruly evil, full of deadly poison.

ГўВҖВңTherewith bless we God, even the Father; and therewith curse we men, which are made after the similitude of God.

ГўВҖВңOut of the same mouth proceedeth blessing and cursing. My brethren, these things ought not so to be.ГўВҖВқ

There is much in public and personal discourse today that is malicious and mean-spirited. There is much conversation that is vulgar and profane, even among youth. This sort of speech is a ГўВҖВңweapon of rebellionГўВҖВқ against God, ГўВҖВңfull of deadly poison.ГўВҖВқ

Consider another example of something that is essentially good but that could be turned against divine directivesГўВҖВ”a personГўВҖВҷs career. One can find real satisfaction in a profession, vocation, or service, and all of us are benefited by what devoted and talented people in many fields of endeavor have accomplished and created.

Still, it is possible that devotion to career can become the paramount focus of oneГўВҖВҷs life. Then all else becomes secondary, including any claim the Savior may make on oneГўВҖВҷs time and talent. For men, and for women as well, forgoing legitimate opportunities for marriage, failing to cleave to and lift oneГўВҖВҷs spouse, failing to nurture oneГўВҖВҷs children, or even intentionally avoiding the blessing and responsibility of child-rearing solely for the sake of career advancement can convert laudable achievement into a form of rebellion.

Another example concerns our physical being. Paul reminds us that we are to glorify God in both body and spirit and that this body is the temple of the Holy Ghost, ГўВҖВңwhich ye have of God, and ye are not your own.ГўВҖВқ Thus, we have a legitimate interest in spending time caring for our bodies as best we can. Few of us will reach the peak of performance we have seen recently in the achievements of Olympic and Paralympic athletes, and some of us are experiencing the effects of age, or what President M.ГӮВ Russell Ballard called ГўВҖВңthe rivets coming loose.ГўВҖВқ

Nevertheless, I believe it pleases our Creator when we do our best to care for His wonderful gift of a physical body. It would be a mark of rebellion to deface or defile oneГўВҖВҷs body, or abuse it, or fail to do what one can to pursue a healthy lifestyle. At the same time, vanity and becoming consumed with oneГўВҖВҷs physique, appearance, or dress can be a form of rebellion at the other extreme, leading one to worship GodГўВҖВҷs gift instead of God.

In the end, burying our weapons of rebellion against God simply means yielding to the enticing of the Holy Spirit, putting off the natural man, and becoming ГўВҖВңa saint through the atonement of Christ the Lord.ГўВҖВқ It means putting the first commandment first in our lives. It means letting God prevail. If our love of God and our determination to serve Him with all our might, mind, and strength become the touchstone by which we judge all things and make all our decisions, we will have buried our weapons of rebellion. By the grace of Christ, God will forgive our sins and rebellions of the past and will take away the stain of those sins and rebellions from our hearts. In time, He will even take away any desire for evil, as He did with those Lamanite converts of the past. Thereafter, we too ГўВҖВңnever [will] fall away.ГўВҖВқ

Burying our weapons of rebellion leads to a unique joy. With all who have ever become converted to the Lord, we are ГўВҖВңbrought to sing [the song of] redeeming love.ГўВҖВқ Our Heavenly Father and His Son, our Redeemer, have confirmed Their unending commitment to our ultimate happiness through the most profound love and sacrifice. We experience Their love daily. Surely we can reciprocate with our own love and loyalty. May we buryГўВҖВ”very, very deepГўВҖВ”any element of rebellion against God in our lives and replace it with a willing heart and a willing mind. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.