Title: Embrace the Lord’s Gift of Repentance
Speaker: By Elder Jorge M. Alvarado
Calling: 
Date: October 2024
URL: https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference/2024/10/34alvarado?lang=eng

I testify of a loving Heavenly Father. In the April 2019 general conference, moments after I was sustained in my new responsibility as a General Authority Seventy, the choir sang a rendition of “I Stand All Amazed” that pierced my heart and soul.

I marvel that he would descend from his throne divine

To rescue a soul so rebellious and proud as mine,

That he should extend his great love unto such as I,

Sufficient to own, to redeem, and to justify.

As I heard those words, I was all amazed. I felt that despite my inadequacies and flaws, the Lord blessed me to know that “in his strength I can do all things.”

The common feeling of inadequacy, weakness, or even unworthiness is something with which many of us sometimes struggle. I still struggle with this; I felt it the day I was called. I have felt it many times, and I still feel it right now speaking to you. However, I have learned that I am not alone with these feelings. In fact, there are many accounts in the scriptures of those who seem to have felt similar feelings. For example, we remember Nephi as a faithful and valiant servant of the Lord. At times, even he struggled with feelings of unworthiness, weakness, and inadequacy.

He said: “Notwithstanding the great goodness of the Lord, in showing me his great and marvelous works, my heart exclaimeth: O wretched man that I am! Yea, my heart sorroweth because of my flesh; my soul grieveth because of mine iniquities.”

The Prophet Joseph Smith spoke of often feeling “condemned,” in his youth, “for [his] weakness and imperfections.” But Joseph’s feelings of inadequacy and worry were part of what led him to ponder, study, learn, and pray. As you may remember, he went to pray in the grove near his home to find truth, peace, and forgiveness. He heard the Lord say: “Joseph, my son, thy sins are forgiven thee. Go thy way, walk in my statutes, and keep my commandments. Behold, I am the Lord of Glory. I was crucified for the world that all those who believe on my name may have eternal life.”

Joseph’s sincere desire to repent and seek the salvation of his soul helped him come to Jesus Christ and receive forgiveness of his sins. This continuous effort opened the door to the continuing Restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ.

This remarkable experience of the Prophet Joseph Smith illustrates how feelings of weakness and inadequacy can help us recognize our fallen nature. If we are humble, this will help us come to recognize our dependence upon Jesus Christ and stir within our hearts a sincere desire to turn to the Savior and repent of our sins.

My friends, repentance is joy! Sweet repentance is part of a daily process through which, “line upon line, precept upon precept,” the Lord teaches us to live a life centered in His teachings. Like Joseph and Nephi, we can “cry unto [God] for mercy; for he is mighty to save.” He can fulfill any righteous desire or longing and can heal any wound in our lives.

In the Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ, you and I can find countless accounts of individuals who learned how to come unto Christ through sincere repentance.

I’d like to share with you an example of the tender mercies of the Lord through an experience that occurred in my beloved home island of Puerto Rico.

It was in my hometown of Ponce that a sister in the Church, Célia Cruz Ayala, decided that she was going to give a Book of Mormon to a friend. She wrapped it and went to deliver this gift, more precious to her than diamonds or rubies, she said. On her way, a thief approached her, grabbed her purse, and ran away with the special gift inside.

When she told this story at church, her friend said, “Who knows? Maybe this was your opportunity to share the gospel!”

Well, a few days later, do you know what happened? Célia received a letter. I hold that letter, which Célia shared with me, in my hand today. It says:

“Mrs. Cruz:

“Forgive me, forgive me. You will never know how sorry I am for attacking you. But because of it, my life has changed and will continue to change.

“That book [the Book of Mormon] has helped me in my life. The dream of that man of God has shaken me. … I am returning your five [dollars,] for I can’t spend them. I want you to know that you seemed to have a radiance about you. That light seemed to stop me [from harming you, so] I ran away instead.

“I want you to know that you will see me again, but when you do, you won’t recognize me, for I will be your brother. … Here, where I live, I have to find the Lord and go to the church you belong to.

“The message you wrote in that book brought tears to my eyes. Since Wednesday night I have not been able to stop reading it. I have prayed and asked God to forgive me [and] I ask you to forgive me. … I thought your wrapped gift was something I could sell. [Instead,] it has made me want to [change] my life. … Forgive me, forgive me, I beg you.

“Your absent friend.”

Brothers and sisters, the light of the Savior can reach us all, no matter our circumstances. “It is not possible for you to sink lower than the infinite light of Christ’s Atonement shines,” said President Jeffrey R. Holland.

As for the unintended recipient of Célia’s gift, the Book of Mormon, this brother went on to witness more of the Lord’s mercy. Although it took time for this brother to forgive himself, he found joy in repentance. What a miracle! One faithful sister, one Book of Mormon, sincere repentance, and the Savior’s power led to the enjoyment of the fulness of blessings of the gospel and sacred covenants in the house of the Lord. Other family members followed and accepted sacred responsibilities in the Lord’s vineyard, including full-time missionary service.

As we come unto Jesus Christ, our path of sincere repentance will eventually lead us to the Savior’s holy temple.

What a righteous motive to strive to be clean—to be worthy of the fulness of the blessings made possible by our Heavenly Father and His Son through sacred temple covenants! Serving regularly in the house of the Lord and striving to keep the sacred covenants we make there will increase both our desire and our ability to experience the change of heart, might, mind, and soul necessary for us to become more like our Savior. President Russell M. Nelson has testified: “Nothing will open the heavens more [than worshipping in the temple]. Nothing!”

My dear friends, do you feel inadequate? Do you feel unworthy? Are you second-guessing yourself? Perhaps you might worry and ask: Do I measure up? Is it too late for me? Why do I keep failing when I am trying my absolute best?

Brothers and sisters, surely we will make mistakes in our lives along the way. But please remember that, as Elder Gerrit W. Gong has taught: “Our Savior’s Atonement is infinite and eternal. Each of us strays and falls short. We may, for a time, lose our way. God lovingly assures us [that] no matter where we are or what we have done, there is no point of no return. He waits ready to embrace us.”

As my dear wife, Cari Lu, has also taught me, we all need to repent, rewind, and reset the time to “zero o’clock” every single day.

Obstacles will come. Let us not wait for things to get hard before turning to God. Let us not wait until the end of our mortal lives to truly repent. Instead, let us now, no matter which part of the covenant path we are on, focus on the redemptive power of Jesus Christ and on Heavenly Father’s desire for us to return to Him.

The Lord’s house, His holy scriptures, His holy prophets and apostles inspire us to strive towards personal holiness through the doctrine of Christ.

And Nephi said: “And now, behold, my beloved brethren, this is the way; and there is none other way nor name given under heaven whereby man [and woman] can be saved in the kingdom of God. And now, behold, this is the doctrine of Christ, and the only and true doctrine of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.”

Our process of “at-one-ment” with God may feel challenging. But you and I can pause, be still, look to the Savior, and seek to find and act on what He would have us change. If we do so with full intent, we will witness His healing. And think of how our posterity will be blessed as we embrace the Lord’s gift of repentance!

The Master Potter, taught my dad, will mold and refine us, which can be difficult. Nonetheless, the Master Healer will also cleanse us. I have experienced and continue to experience that healing power. I testify that it comes through faith in Jesus Christ and daily repentance.

Oh, it is wonderful that he should care for me

Enough to die for me!

I testify of God’s love and of the infinite power of His Son’s Atonement. We can feel it profoundly as we sincerely and wholeheartedly repent.

My friends, I am a witness of the glorious Restoration of the gospel through the Prophet Joseph Smith and the current divine guidance of the Savior through His prophet and mouthpiece, President Russell M. Nelson. I know Jesus Christ lives and that He is the Master Healer of our souls. I know and I testify that these things are true, in the holy name of Jesus Christ, amen.