Title: Integrity: A Christlike Attribute
Speaker: By Elder JackГӮВ N. Gerard
Calling: 
Date: April 2024
URL: https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference/2024/04/17gerard?lang=eng

In the closing hours of the SaviorГўВҖВҷs ministry, He went to the Mount of Olives into a garden called Gethsemane and invited His disciples to wait. Now alone, He petitioned His Father, ГўВҖВңIf thou be willing, remove this cup from me.ГўВҖВқ Being in agony, His suffering caused Him, ГўВҖВңeven God, the greatest of all, to tremble because of pain, and to bleed at every pore,ГӮВ ГўВҖВҰ and would that [He] might not drink the bitter cup, and shrink.ГўВҖВқ Yet in the moment of deep despair, the Savior did not shrink ГўВҖВңbut partook and finished [His] preparations unto the children of men.ГўВҖВқ

As the Only Begotten of the Father, Jesus Christ had power over death, pain, and suffering but did not shrink. He fulfilled the covenant He had made with His Father and, in doing so, manifested a Christlike attribute increasingly important in the world in which we liveГўВҖВ”the attribute of integrity. He remained true to God, to each of us, and to His divine identity.

Jesus Christ is our Exemplar. Living a life of integrity requires us to be true to God, to each other, and to our divine identity. Integrity flows from the first great commandment to love God. Because you love God, you are true to Him at all times. You understand that there is right and wrong and there is absolute truthГўВҖВ”GodГўВҖВҷs truth. Integrity means we do not lower our standards or behavior to impress or to be accepted by others. You ГўВҖВңdo what is rightГўВҖВқ and ГўВҖВңlet the consequence follow.ГўВҖВқ Recent revisions to the Preach My Gospel missionary manual notably added integrity as a Christlike attribute.

A number of years ago, Elder Uchtdorf was assigned to reorganize our stake. During our interview, he asked me a question I have not forgotten: ГўВҖВңHas there been anything in your life that, if brought to the attention of the public, would be an embarrassment to you or the Church?ГўВҖВқ Surprised, my mind quickly raced over my entire life, trying to recall those moments when I may have fallen short and asking myself, ГўВҖВңIf others knew everything I had done, what would they think of me or the Church?ГўВҖВқ

In the moment, I thought Elder Uchtdorf was only asking about worthiness, but IГўВҖВҷve come to understand it was really a question about integrity. Was I true to what I professed? Would the world see consistency between my words and my deeds? Would others see God through my conduct?

President SpencerГӮВ W. Kimball taught, ГўВҖВңIntegrityГўВҖВқ is our ГўВҖВңwillingness and ability to live by our beliefs and commitments.ГўВҖВқ

A life of integrity requires us to first and foremost be true to God.

From our early childhood, we learned the story of Daniel in the lionsГўВҖВҷ den. Daniel was always true to God. His jealous peers ГўВҖВңsought to find occasion against [him]ГўВҖВқ and contrived a decree mandating prayers to their gods alone. Daniel knew of the decree but went home andГўВҖВ”with ГўВҖВңhis windows being openГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”knelt and prayed three times a day to the God of Israel. As a result, Daniel was cast into the lionsГўВҖВҷ den. On the morn, the king found DanielГўВҖВҷs God had delivered him and issued a new decree that all should ГўВҖВңtremble and fear before the God of Daniel: for he is the living God.ГўВҖВқ

The king came to know God through DanielГўВҖВҷs integrity. Others see God through oursГўВҖВ”words and deeds. Just like Daniel, being true to God will increasingly set us apart from the world.

The Savior reminds us, ГўВҖВңIn the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world.ГўВҖВқ President RussellГӮВ M. Nelson counseled: ГўВҖВң[Overcoming the world] means overcoming the temptation to care more about the things of this world than the things of God. It means trusting the doctrine of Christ more than the philosophies of men.ГўВҖВқ Likewise, we must resist the temptation to walk ГўВҖВңin [our] own way, and after the image of [our] own god, whose image is in the likeness of the world.ГўВҖВқ

The oppositional pull of this world is an essential part of GodГўВҖВҷs plan of salvation. How we respond to the pull is the essence of who we areГўВҖВ”a measure of our integrity. The worldly pull can be as direct as to destroy fidelity in marriage or as subtle as posting anonymous comments critical of Church doctrine or culture. Exercising integrity in our choices is an outward expression of an inner commitment to follow the Savior Jesus Christ.

Just as integrity flows from the first great commandment to love God, being true to each other flows from the second, to love our neighbors as ourselves. A life of integrity is not a life of perfection; it is a life in which we strive every day to foremost be true to God and within that context to be true to others. President Oaks reminds us, ГўВҖВңOur zeal to keep [the] second commandment must not cause us to forget the first.ГўВҖВқ

The world increasingly grapples with integrity by imposing codes of conduct or ethical rules that govern the relationships between people and institutions. While good, these rules are generally not anchored in absolute truth and tend to evolve based on cultural acceptance. Similar to the question posed by Elder Uchtdorf, some organizations train employees to consider what their decisions or decision-making process would look like if published online or on the front page of a major newspaper. As the Church comes out of obscurity and darkness, we, like Daniel, must rise above the worldly expectations and become the face of the true and living God at all times and in all places.

Saying we have integrity is insufficient if our actions are inconsistent with our words. Likewise, Christian kindness is not a substitute for integrity. As a covenant people, and as leaders of His Church, we must be beyond reproach and aligned with the standards the Lord has set.

Acting with integrity builds faith and trust and reassures others that we seek only to do the will of the Lord. In our councils, we resist outside influences and follow the LordГўВҖВҷs revealed process, seeking insights from each woman and man and acting consistent with the inspired counsel received.

Our focus is on the Savior, and we are careful to avoid actions that may be perceived as serving our own interests, benefiting our family, or favoring someone at the expense of another. We go out of our way to avoid any perception that our actions may be influenced by the honors of men, to receive personal recognition, generate more likes, be quoted or published.

Finally, a life of integrity requires us to be true to our divine identity.

We know some who were not. Of particular significance is the anti-Christ Korihor, who led away the hearts of many, appealing to their ГўВҖВңcarnal mind.ГўВҖВқ Yet, in the final moments of his life, he confessed, ГўВҖВңI always knew that there was a God.ГўВҖВқ President HenryГӮВ B. Eyring has taught that lying ГўВҖВңis contrary to the nature of our spirits,ГўВҖВқ our divine identity. Korihor deceived himself, and the truth was not in him.

In contrast, the Prophet Joseph Smith confidently proclaimed, ГўВҖВңI knew it, and I knew that God knew it, and I could not deny it.ГўВҖВқ

JosephГўВҖВҷs brother Hyrum was loved by the Lord ГўВҖВңbecause of the integrity of his heart.ГўВҖВқ He and Joseph remained true to the endГўВҖВ”true to their divine identity, the light and knowledge they received, and true to the person they knew they could become.

May we reconcile ourselves ГўВҖВңto the will of GodГўВҖВқ and develop the Christlike attribute of integrity. May we follow our Exemplar, the Savior of the world, and not shrink but live a life that is true to God, to each other, and to our divine identity.

As Job said, ГўВҖВңLet me be weighed in an even balance, that God may know mine integrity.ГўВҖВқ In the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.