Title: ГўВҖВңI Am HeГўВҖВқ
Speaker: By President JeffreyГӮВ R. Holland
Calling: 
Date: October 2024
URL: https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference/2024/10/41holland?lang=eng

It is the Sabbath day, and we have gathered to speak of Christ and Him crucified. I know that my Redeemer lives.

Consider this scene from the last week of JesusГўВҖВҷs mortal life. A multitude had gathered, including Roman soldiers armed with staves and strapped with swords. Led by officers from the chief priests who had torches in hand, this earnest company was not off to conquer a city. Tonight they were looking for only one man, a man not known to carry a weapon, receive military training, or engage in physical combat at any time in His entire life.

As the soldiers approached, Jesus, in an effort to protect His disciples, stepped forth and said, ГўВҖВңWhom seek ye?ГўВҖВқ They replied, ГўВҖВңJesus of Nazareth.ГўВҖВқ Jesus said, ГўВҖВңI am he. ГўВҖВҰ As soon ГўВҖВҰ as he had said unto them, I am he, they went backward, and fell to the ground.ГўВҖВқ

To me, that is one of the most stirring lines in all of scripture. Among other things, it tells me straightforwardly that just being in the presence of the Son of GodГўВҖВ”the great Jehovah of the Old Testament and Good Shepherd of the New, who bears no weapons of any kindГўВҖВ”that just hearing the voice of this Refuge from the Storm, this Prince of Peace, is enough to send antagonists stumbling into retreat, piling them in a jumble, making the whole group wish they had been assigned kitchen duty that night.

Just a few days earlier, when He had entered the city triumphantly, ГўВҖВңall the city was moved,ГўВҖВқ the scripture says, asking, ГўВҖВңWho is this?ГўВҖВқ I can only imagine that ГўВҖВңWho is this?ГўВҖВқ is the question those muddled soldiers were now asking!

The answer to that question could not have been in His looks, for Isaiah had prophesied some seven centuries earlier that ГўВҖВңhe hath no form nor comeliness; and when we shall see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him.ГўВҖВқ It certainly wasnГўВҖВҷt in His polished wardrobe or His great personal wealth, of which He had neither. It could not be from any professional training in the local synagogues because we have no evidence that He ever studied at any of them, though even in His youth He could confound superbly prepared scribes and lawyers, astonishing them with His doctrine ГўВҖВңas one having authority.ГўВҖВқ

From that teaching in the temple to His triumphant entry into Jerusalem and this final, unjustifiable arrest, Jesus was routinely placed in difficult, often devious situations in which He was always triumphantГўВҖВ”victories for which we have no explanation except divine DNA.

Yet down through history many have simplified, even trivialized our image of Him and His witness of who He was. They have reduced His righteousness to mere prudishness, His justice to mere anger, His mercy to mere permissiveness. We must not be guilty of such simplistic versions of Him that conveniently ignore teachings we find uncomfortable. This ГўВҖВңdumbing downГўВҖВқ has been true even regarding His ultimate defining virtue, His love.

During His mortal mission, Jesus taught that there were two great commandments. They have been taught in this conference and will forever be taught: ГўВҖВңLove the Lord thy God [and] love thy neighbour as thyself.ГўВҖВқГӮВ If we are to follow the Savior faithfully in these two crucial and inextricably linked rules, we ought to hold firmly to what He actually said. And what He actually said was, ГўВҖВңIf ye love me, keep my commandments.ГўВҖВқ On that same evening, He said we were to ГўВҖВңlove one another; as I have loved you.ГўВҖВқ

In those scriptures, those qualifying phrases defining true, Christlike loveГўВҖВ”sometimes referred to as charityГўВҖВ”are absolutely essential.

What do they define? How did Jesus love?

First, He loved with ГўВҖВңall [of His] heart, might, mind and strength,ГўВҖВқ giving Him the ability to heal the deepest pain and declare the hardest reality. In short, He is one who could administer grace and insist on truth at the same time. As Lehi said in his blessing to his son Jacob, ГўВҖВңRedemption cometh in and through the Holy Messiah; for he is full of grace and truth.ГўВҖВқ His love allows an encouraging embrace when it is needed and a bitter cup when it has to be swallowed. So we try to loveГўВҖВ”with all of our heart, might, mind, and strengthГўВҖВ”because that is the way He loves us.

The second characteristic of JesusГўВҖВҷs divine charity was His obedience to every word that proceeded from GodГўВҖВҷs mouth, always aligning His will and behavior with that of His Heavenly Father.

When He arrived on the Western Hemisphere following His Resurrection, Christ said to the Nephites: ГўВҖВңBehold, I am Jesus Christ. ГўВҖВҰ I have drunk out of that bitter cup which the Father hath given me, ГўВҖВҰ in the which I have suffered the will of the Father ГўВҖВҰ from the beginning.ГўВҖВқ

Of the myriad ways He could have introduced Himself, Jesus did so by declaring His obedience to the will of the FatherГўВҖВ”never mind that not long before in His hour of greatest need, this Only Begotten Son of God had felt totally abandoned by His Father. ChristГўВҖВҷs charityГўВҖВ”evident in complete loyalty to divine willГўВҖВ”persisted and continues to persist, not just through the easy and comfortable days but especially through the darkest and most difficult ones.

Jesus was ГўВҖВңa man of sorrows,ГўВҖВқ the scriptures say. He experienced sadness, fatigue, disappointment, and excruciating loneliness. In these and in all times, JesusГўВҖВҷs love faileth not, and neither does His FatherГўВҖВҷs. With such mature loveГўВҖВ”the kind that exemplifies, empowers, and impartsГўВҖВ”ours will not fail either.

So, if sometimes the harder you try, the more difficult it seems to get; if, just as you try to work on your limitations and your shortcomings, you find someone or something determined to challenge your faith; if, as you labor devotedly, you still feel moments of fear wash over you, remember that it has been so for some of the most faithful and marvelous people in every era of time. Also remember that there is a force in the universe determined to oppose every good thing you try to do.

So, through abundance as well as poverty, through private acclaim as well as public criticism, through the divine elements of the Restoration as well as the human foibles that will inevitably be part of it, we stay the course with the true Church of Christ. Why? Because as with our Redeemer, we signed on for the whole termГўВҖВ”not ending with the first short introductory quiz but through to the final exam. The joy in this is that the Headmaster gave us all open-book answers before the course began. Furthermore, we have a host of tutors who remind us of these answers at regular stops along the way. But of course, none of this works if we keep cutting class.

ГўВҖВңWhom seek ye?ГўВҖВқ With all our hearts we answer, ГўВҖВңJesus of Nazareth.ГўВҖВқ When He says, ГўВҖВңI am he,ГўВҖВқ we bow our knee and confess with our tongue that He is the living Christ, that He alone atoned for our sins, that He was carrying us even when we thought He had abandoned us. When we stand before Him and see the wounds in His hands and feet, we will begin to comprehend what it meant for Him to bear our sins and be acquainted with grief, to be completely obedient to the will of His FatherГўВҖВ”all out of pure love for us. To introduce others to faith, repentance, baptism, the gift of the Holy Ghost, and receiving our blessings in the house of the LordГўВҖВ”these are the fundamental ГўВҖВңprinciples and ordinancesГўВҖВқ that ultimately reveal our love of God and neighbor and joyfully characterize the true Church of Christ.

Brothers and sisters, I testify that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the vehicle God has provided for our exaltation. The gospel it teaches is true, and the priesthood legitimizing it is not derivative. I testify that RussellГӮВ M. Nelson is a prophet of our God, as His predecessors were and as His successors will be. And one day that prophetic guidance will lead a generation to see our Messenger of Salvation descend like ГўВҖВңlightning ГўВҖВҰ out of the east,ГўВҖВқ and we will exclaim, ГўВҖВңJesus of Nazareth.ГўВҖВқ With arms forever outstretched and love unfeigned, He will reply, ГўВҖВңI am he.ГўВҖВқ I so promise with the apostolic power and authority of His holy name, even Jesus Christ, amen.