Title: In the Space of Not Many Years
Speaker: By Elder DavidГӮВ A. Bednar
Calling: 
Date: October 2024
URL: https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference/2024/10/35bednar?lang=eng

My beloved brothers and sisters, sitting on the stand today, I have watched this Conference Center fill up three times, for the first time since COVID. You are devoted disciples of Jesus Christ who are eager to learn. I commend you for your faithfulness. And I love you.

Ezra Taft Benson served as the President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints from November 1985 until May 1994. I was 33 years old when President Benson became the President of the Church and 42 when he passed away. And his teachings and testimony influenced me in profound and powerful ways.

One of the hallmarks of President BensonГўВҖВҷs ministry was his focus upon the purpose and importance of the Book of Mormon. He emphasized repeatedly that ГўВҖВңthe Book of Mormon is the keystone of our religionГўВҖВ”the keystone of our testimony, the keystone of our doctrine, and the keystone in the witness of our Lord and Savior.ГўВҖВқ He also often emphasized teachings and warnings about the sin of pride found in this latter-day testament of Jesus Christ.

A particular teaching by President Benson greatly impacted me and continues to influence my study of the Book of Mormon. He said:

ГўВҖВңThe Book of Mormon ГўВҖВҰ was written for our day. The Nephites never had the book; neither did the Lamanites of ancient times. It was meant for us. Mormon wrote near the end of the Nephite civilization. Under the inspiration of God, who sees all things from the beginning, [Mormon] abridged centuries of records, choosing the stories, speeches, and events that would be most helpful to us.ГўВҖВқ

President Benson continued: ГўВҖВңEach of the major writers of the Book of Mormon testified that he wrote for future generations. ГўВҖВҰ If they saw our day, and chose those things which would be of greatest worth to us, is not that how we should study the Book of Mormon? We should constantly ask ourselves, ГўВҖВҳWhy did the Lord inspire Mormon ГўВҖВҰ to include [this account] in his record? What lesson can I learn from [this admonition] to help me live in this day and age?ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

President BensonГўВҖВҷs statements help us to understand that the Book of Mormon is not primarily a historical record that looks to the past. Rather, this volume of scripture looks to the future and contains important principles, warnings, and lessons intended for the circumstances and challenges of our day. Hence, the Book of Mormon is a book about our future and the times in which we do now and will yet live.

I pray for the assistance of the Holy Ghost as we now consider relevant lessons for us today from the book of Helaman in the Book of Mormon.

The record of Helaman and his sons describes a people who were anticipating the birth of Jesus Christ. The half century recounted in the scriptural record highlights the conversion and righteousness of the Lamanites and the wickedness, apostasy, and abominations of the Nephites.

A series of comparisons and contrasts between the Nephites and Lamanites from this ancient record are most instructive for us today.

ГўВҖВңThe Lamanites had become, the more part of them, a righteous people, insomuch that their righteousness did exceed that of the Nephites, because of their firmness and their steadiness in the faith.

ГўВҖВң[And] there were many of the Nephites who had become hardened and impenitent and grossly wicked, insomuch that they did reject the word of God and all the preaching and prophesying which did come among them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd thus we see that the Nephites did begin to dwindle in unbelief, and grow in wickedness and abominations, while the Lamanites began to grow exceedingly in the knowledge of their God; yea, they did begin to keep his statutes and commandments, and to walk in truth and uprightness before him.

ГўВҖВңAnd thus we see that the Spirit of the Lord began to withdraw from the Nephites, because of the wickedness and the hardness of their hearts.

ГўВҖВңAnd thus we see that the Lord began to pour out his Spirit upon the Lamanites, because of their easiness and willingness to believe in his words.ГўВҖВқ

Perhaps the most stunning and sobering aspect of this decline into apostasy by the Nephites is the fact that ГўВҖВңall these iniquities did come unto them in the space of not many years.ГўВҖВқ

How could a once-righteous people become hardened and wicked in such a short period of time? How could people so quickly forget the God who had blessed them so abundantly?

In a powerful and profound way, the negative example of the Nephites is instructive for us today.

ГўВҖВңPride ГўВҖВҰ began to enter ГўВҖВҰ into the hearts of the people who professed to belong to the church of God ГўВҖВҰ because of their exceedingly great riches and their prosperity in the land.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң[They] set [their] hearts upon the riches and the vain things of this worldГўВҖВқ ГўВҖВңbecause of that pride which [they] ГўВҖВҰ suffered to enter [into their] hearts, which ГўВҖВҰ lifted [them] up beyond that which is good because of [their] exceedingly great riches!ГўВҖВқ

Ancient voices from the dust plead with us today to learn this everlasting lesson: prosperity, possessions, and ease constitute a potent mixture that can lead even the righteous to drink the spiritual poison of pride.

Allowing pride to enter into our hearts can cause us to mock that which is sacred; disbelieve in the spirit of prophecy and revelation; trample under our feet the commandments of God; deny the word of God; cast out, mock, and revile against the prophets; and forget the Lord our God and ГўВҖВңnot desire that the Lord [our] God, who hath created [us], should rule and reign over [us].ГўВҖВқ

Therefore, if we are not faithful and obedient, we can transform the God-given blessing of prosperity into a prideful curse that diverts and distracts us from eternal truths and vital spiritual priorities. We always must be on guard against a pride-induced and exaggerated sense of self-importance, a misguided evaluation of our own self-sufficiency, and seeking self instead of serving others.

As we pridefully focus upon ourselves, we also are afflicted with spiritual blindness and miss much, most, or perhaps all that is occurring within and around us. We cannot look to and focus upon Jesus Christ as the ГўВҖВңmarkГўВҖВқ if we only see ourselves.

Such spiritual blindness also can cause us to turn out of the way of righteousness, fall away into forbidden paths, and become lost. As we blindly ГўВҖВңturn unto [our] own waysГўВҖВқ and follow destructive detours, we are inclined to lean upon our own understanding, boast in our own strength, and depend upon our own wisdom.

Samuel the Lamanite succinctly summarized the turning away from God by the Nephites: ГўВҖВңYe have sought all the days of your lives for that which ye could not obtain; and ye have sought for happiness in doing iniquity, which thing is contrary to the nature of that righteousness which is in our great and Eternal Head.ГўВҖВқ

The prophet Mormon observed, ГўВҖВңThe more part of the people [remained] in their pride and wickedness, and the lesser part [walked] more circumspectly before God.ГўВҖВқ

In the Book of Helaman, the increasing righteousness of the Lamanites provides a stark contrast to the rapid spiritual decline of the Nephites.

The Lamanites turned to God and were brought to a knowledge of the truth by believing the teachings in the holy scriptures and of prophets, exercising faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, repenting of their sins, and experiencing a mighty change of heart.

ГўВҖВңTherefore, as many as have come to this, ye know of yourselves are firm and steadfast in the faith, and in the thing wherewith they have been made free.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYe should behold that the more part of [the Lamanites] are in the path of their duty, and they do walk circumspectly before God, and they do observe to keep his commandments and his statutes and his judgments.ГӮВ ГўВҖВҰ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҰ They are striving with unwearied diligence that they may bring the remainder of their brethren to the knowledge of the truth.ГўВҖВқ

As a consequence, the ГўВҖВңrighteousness [of the Lamanites] did exceed that of the Nephites, because of their firmness and their steadiness in the faith.ГўВҖВқ

Moroni declared: ГўВҖВңBehold, the Lord hath shown unto me great and marvelous things concerning that which must shortly come, at that day when these things shall come forth among you.

ГўВҖВңBehold, I speak unto you as if ye were present, and yet ye are not. But behold, Jesus Christ hath shown you unto me, and I know your doing.ГўВҖВқ

Please remember that the Book of Mormon looks to the future and contains important principles, warnings, and lessons intended for me and you in the circumstances and challenges of our present day.

Apostasy can occur at two basic levelsГўВҖВ”institutional and individual. At the institutional level, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will not be lost through apostasy or taken from the earth.

The Prophet Joseph Smith proclaimed: ГўВҖВңThe Standard of Truth has been erected; no unhallowed hand can stop the work from progressing ГўВҖВҰГӮВ ; the truth of God will go forth boldly, nobly, and independent, till it has penetrated every continent, visited every clime, swept every country, and sounded in every ear, till the purposes of God shall be accomplished, and the Great Jehovah shall say the work is done.ГўВҖВқ

At the individual level, each of us must ГўВҖВңbeware of pride, lest [we] become as the Nephites of old.ГўВҖВқ

May I suggest that if you or I believe we are sufficiently strong and stalwart to avoid the arrogance of pride, then perhaps we already are suffering from this deadly spiritual disease. Simply stated, if you or I do not believe we could be afflicted with and by pride, then we are vulnerable and in spiritual danger. In the space of not many days, weeks, months, or years, we might forfeit our spiritual birthright for far less than a mess of pottage.

If, however, you or I believe we could be afflicted with and by pride, then we consistently will do the small and simple things that will protect and help us become ГўВҖВңas a child, submissive, meek, humble, patient, full of love, willing to submit to all things which the Lord seeth fit to inflict upon [us].ГўВҖВқ ГўВҖВңBlessed are they who humble themselves without being compelled to be humble.ГўВҖВқ

As we follow President BensonГўВҖВҷs counsel and ask ourselves why the Lord inspired Mormon to include in his abridgment of the book of Helaman the accounts, admonitions, and warnings that he did, I promise we will discern the applicability of these teachings to the specific conditions of our individual lives and families today. As we study and ponder this inspired record, we will be blessed with eyes to see, ears to hear, minds to comprehend, and hearts to understand the lessons we should learn to ГўВҖВңbeware of pride, lest [we should] enter into temptation.ГўВҖВқ

I joyfully witness that God the Eternal Father is our Father. Jesus Christ is His Only Begotten and Beloved Son. He is our Savior. And I testify that as we walk in the meekness of the LordГўВҖВҷs Spirit, we will avoid and overcome pride and have peace in Him. I so witness in the sacred name of the Lord Jesus Christ, amen.