Title: The Atonement of Jesus Christ
Speaker: By TadГӮВ R. Callister
Calling: 
Date: April 2019
URL: https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference/2019/04/45callister?lang=eng

At this season of the year we particularly rejoice and reflect upon the SaviorГўВҖВҷs Atonement. It is indeed the most supernal, mind-expanding, passionate doctrine this world or universe has ever known. It is what gives hope and purpose to our lives.

What then is the Atonement of Jesus Christ? In one sense, it is a series of divine events that commenced in the Garden of Gethsemane, continued on the cross, and culminated with the SaviorГўВҖВҷs Resurrection from the tomb. It was motivated by an incomprehensible love for each of us. It required a being who was sinless; who had infinite power over the elementsГўВҖВ”even death; who possessed a boundless capacity to suffer the consequences of all our sins and ailments; and who, in fact, descended beneath it all. This was the mission of Jesus ChristГўВҖВ”this was His Atonement.

What then was its purpose? It was to make it possible for us to return to GodГўВҖВҷs presence, become more like Him, and have a fulness of joy. This was done by overcoming four obstacles:

Physical death

Spiritual death caused by Adam and by our sins

Our afflictions and infirmities

Our weaknesses and imperfections

But how can the Savior accomplish this without violating the laws of justice?

Suppose for a moment a man contemplating an exhilarating free fall makes a rash decision and spontaneously jumps from a small plane. After doing so, he quickly realizes the foolishness of his actions. He wants to land safely, but there is an obstacleГўВҖВ”the law of gravity. He moves his arms with astounding speed, hoping to fly, but to no avail. He positions his body to float or glide to slow the descent, but the law of gravity is unrelenting and unmerciful. He tries to reason with this basic law of nature: ГўВҖВңIt was a mistake. I will never do it again.ГўВҖВқ But his pleas fall on deaf ears. The law of gravity knows no compassion; it makes no exceptions. Fortuitously, though, the man suddenly feels something on his back. His friend in the plane, sensing the moment of foolishness, had placed a parachute there just before the jump. He finds the rip cord and pulls it. Relieved, he floats safely to the ground. We might ask, ГўВҖВңWas the law of gravity violated, or did that parachute work within that law to provide a safe landing?ГўВҖВқ

When we sin, we are like the foolish man who jumped from the plane. No matter what we do on our own, only a crash-landing awaits us. We are subject to the law of justice, which, like the law of gravity, is exacting and unforgiving. We can be saved only because the Savior, through His Atonement, mercifully provides us with a spiritual parachute of sorts. If we have faith in Jesus Christ and repent (meaning we do our part and pull the rip cord), then the protective powers of the Savior are unleashed on our behalf and we can land spiritually unharmed.

This is possible, however, only because the Savior overcame the four obstacles that can prevent our spiritual progress.

1. Death. He overcame death through His glorious Resurrection. The Apostle Paul taught, ГўВҖВңAs in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive.ГўВҖВқ

2. Sin. The Savior overcame sin and guilt for all those who repent. So deep and expansive is His cleansing power that Isaiah promised, ГўВҖВңThough your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow.ГўВҖВқ

On occasion, I have met with good Saints who have had trouble forgiving themselves, who have innocently but incorrectly placed limits on the SaviorГўВҖВҷs redemptive powers. Unwittingly, they have converted an infinite Atonement to a finite one that somehow falls short of their particular sin or weakness. But it is an infinite Atonement because it encompasses and circumscribes every sin and weakness, as well as every abuse or pain caused by others.

TrumanГӮВ G. Madsen made this comforting observation:

ГўВҖВңIf there are some of you who have been tricked into the conviction that you have gone too far, ГўВҖВҰ that you have had the poison of sin which makes it impossible ever again to be what you could have beenГўВҖВ”then hear me.

ГўВҖВңI bear testimony that you cannot sink farther than the light and sweeping intelligence of Jesus Christ can reach. I bear testimony that as long as there is one spark of the will to repent and to reach, he is there. He did not just descend to your condition; he descended below it, ГўВҖВҳthat he might be in all and through all things, the light of truth.ГўВҖВҷ [Doctrine and Covenants 88:6.]ГўВҖВқ

One reason it is so essential to understand the SaviorГўВҖВҷs Atonement and its infinite implications is that with increased understanding comes an increased desire to forgive ourselves and others.

Even though we may believe in ChristГўВҖВҷs cleansing powers, the question often arises: ГўВҖВңHow do I know if I have been forgiven of my sins?ГўВҖВқ If we feel the Spirit, then that is our witness that we have been forgiven, or that the cleansing process is taking place. President HenryГӮВ B. Eyring taught, ГўВҖВңIf you have felt the influence of the Holy GhostГӮВ ГўВҖВҰГӮВ , you may take it as evidence that the Atonement is working in your life.ГўВҖВқ

Some have asked, ГўВҖВңBut if I am forgiven, why do I still feel guilt?ГўВҖВқ Perhaps in GodГўВҖВҷs mercy the memory of that guilt is a warning, a spiritual ГўВҖВңstop signГўВҖВқ of sorts that, at least for a time, cries out when additional temptations confront us: ГўВҖВңDonГўВҖВҷt go down that road. You know the pain it can bring.ГўВҖВқ In this sense, it serves as a protection, not a punishment.

Is it possible, then, to remember our sins and still be free of guilt?

Alma remembered his sins, even years after he repented. But when he cried unto Jesus for mercy, he said, ГўВҖВңI could remember my pains no more; yea, I was harrowed up by the memory of my sins no more.ГўВҖВқ

How could he remember his sins but have no pain or guilt? Because when we repent, we are ГўВҖВңborn of God.ГўВҖВқ We become, as the scriptures say, ГўВҖВңnew creaturesГўВҖВқ in Christ. With perfect honesty we can now say, ГўВҖВңI am not the man or woman who committed those past sins. I am a new and transformed being.ГўВҖВқ

3. Afflictions and Infirmities. Alma prophesied that Christ ГўВҖВңshall go forth, suffering pains and afflictions and temptations of every kind.ГўВҖВқ Why? ГўВҖВңThat his bowels may be filled with mercy, ГўВҖВҰ that he may know according to the flesh how to succor his people according to their infirmities.ГўВҖВқ

How does He accomplish this? Sometimes He removes the affliction, sometimes He strengthens us to endure, and sometimes He gives us an eternal perspective to better understand their temporary nature. After Joseph Smith had languished in Liberty Jail for about two months, he finally cried out, ГўВҖВңO God, where art thou?ГўВҖВқ Instead of providing instant relief, God responded, ГўВҖВңMy son, peace be unto thy soul; thine adversity and thine afflictions shall be but a small moment; and then, if thou endure it well, God shall exalt thee on high.ГўВҖВқ

Joseph now understood that this bitter experience was but a dot on the eternal spectrum. With this enhanced vision, he wrote the Saints from that same prison cell, ГўВҖВңDearly beloved brethren, let us cheerfully do all things that lie in our power; and then may we stand still, with the utmost assurance, to see the salvation of God.ГўВҖВқ Because of the SaviorГўВҖВҷs Atonement, we can have an eternal perspective that gives meaning to our trials and hope for our relief.

4. Weaknesses and Imperfections. Because of His Atonement, the Savior has enabling powers, sometimes referred to as grace, that can help us overcome our weaknesses and imperfections and thus assist us in our pursuit to become more like Him.

Moroni so taught: ГўВҖВңYea, come unto Christ, and be perfected in him, ГўВҖВҰ that by his grace ye may be perfect in Christ.ГўВҖВқ There seem at least two channels or means of availing ourselves of those enabling powers that can refineГўВҖВ”even perfectГўВҖВ”us.

First, the saving ordinances. The scriptures tell us, ГўВҖВңIn the ordinances thereof, the power of godliness is manifest.ГўВҖВқ Sometimes we may think of ordinances as a checklistГўВҖВ”necessary for exaltation; but in truth each unleashes a godly power that helps us become more like Christ. For example:

When we are baptized and receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, we are made cleanГўВҖВ”thus becoming more holy like God.

In addition, through the Holy Ghost, our minds may be enlightened and our hearts softened so we can think and feel more like Him.

And when we are sealed as spouses, we inherit the right to ГўВҖВңthrones, kingdoms, principalities, and powersГўВҖВқ as gifts from God.

A second channel for these enabling powers is the gifts of the Spirit. Because of ChristГўВҖВҷs Atonement, we are eligible to receive the gift of the Holy Ghost and its accompanying spiritual gifts. These gifts are attributes of godliness; therefore, each time we acquire a gift of the Spirit, we become more like God. No doubt that is why the scriptures enjoin us on multiple occasions to seek these gifts.

President GeorgeГӮВ Q. Cannon taught: ГўВҖВңNo man ought to say, ГўВҖВҳOh, I cannot help this; it is my nature.ГўВҖВҷ He is not justified in it, for the reason that God has promised to ГўВҖВҰ give gifts that will eradicate [our weaknesses]. ГўВҖВҰ If any of us are imperfect, it is our duty to pray for the gift that will make us perfect.ГўВҖВқ

In summary, the SaviorГўВҖВҷs Atonement gives us life for death, ГўВҖВңbeauty for ashes,ГўВҖВқ healing for hurt, and perfection for weakness. It is heavenГўВҖВҷs antidote to the obstacles and struggles of this world.

In the SaviorГўВҖВҷs final week of mortality, He said, ГўВҖВңIn the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world.ГўВҖВқ Because the Savior performed His Atonement, there is no external force or event or personГўВҖВ”no sin or death or divorceГўВҖВ”that can prevent us from achieving exaltation, provided we keep GodГўВҖВҷs commandments. With that knowledge, we can press forward with good cheer and absolute assurance that God is with us in this heavenly quest.

I bear my witness that the SaviorГўВҖВҷs Atonement is not only infinite in scope but also individual in reachГўВҖВ”that it can not only return us to GodГўВҖВҷs presence but also enable us to become like HimГўВҖВ”the crowning goal of ChristГўВҖВҷs Atonement. Of that I bear my grateful and certain witness in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.