Title: Sustaining of General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers of the Church
Speaker: Presented by President Henry B. Eyring
Calling: 
Date: October 2019
URL: https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference/2019/10/21eyring?lang=eng

Brothers and sisters, it is proposed that we sustain Russell Marion Nelson as prophet, seer, and revelator and President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; Dallin Harris Oaks as First Counselor in the First Presidency; and Henry Bennion Eyring as Second Counselor in the First Presidency.

Those in favor may manifest it.

Those opposed, if any, may manifest it.

It is proposed that we sustain Dallin H. Oaks as President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles and M. Russell Ballard as Acting President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles.

Those in favor, please signify.

Any opposed may manifest it.

It is proposed that we sustain the following as members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles: M. Russell Ballard, Jeffrey R. Holland, Dieter F. Uchtdorf, David A. Bednar, Quentin L. Cook, D. Todd Christofferson, Neil L. Andersen, Ronald A. Rasband, Gary E. Stevenson, Dale G. Renlund, Gerrit W. Gong, and Ulisses Soares.

Those in favor, please manifest it.

Any opposed may so indicate.

It is proposed that we sustain the counselors in the First Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles as prophets, seers, and revelators.

All in favor, please manifest it.

Contrary, if there be any, by the same sign.

It is proposed that we release with appreciation for their devoted service Elders Wilford W. Andersen, Kim B. Clark, Lawrence E. Corbridge, Claudio R. M. Costa, Bradley D. Foster, O. Vincent Haleck, Donald L. Hallstrom, Steven E. Snow, and Larry Y. Wilson as General Authority Seventies and grant them emeritus status.

Those who wish to join with us in expressing gratitude to these Brethren and their families for their remarkable service, please so manifest.

It is proposed that we release the following as Area Seventies: Julio C. Acosta, Blake R. Alder, Alain L. Allard, Omar A. Alvarez, Taiichi Aoba, Carlos F. Arredondo, Aley K. Auna Jr., Grant C. Bennett, Michael H. Bourne, Rómulo V. Cabrera, Wilson B. Calderón, Hernando Camargo, José C. F. Campos, Nicolás Castañeda, Walter Chatora, Zeno Chow, Robert J. Dudfield, J. Kevin Ence, Meliula M. Fata, K. Mark Frost, Claude R. Gamiette, Maurício G. Gonzaga, Leonard D. Greer, Jose L. Isaguirre, Tae Gul Jung, Sergio L. Krasnoselsky, Milan F. Kunz, Bryan R. Larsen, G. Kenneth Lee, Geraldo Lima, W. Jean-Pierre Lono, Khumbulani Mdletshe, Dale H. Munk, Norman R. Nemrow, Yutaka Onda, Wolfgang Pilz, Raimundo Pacheco De Pinho, Gennady N. Podvodov, Abraham E. Quero, Marco A. Rais, Steven K. Randall, Francisco J. Ruiz de Mendoza, Edwin A. Sexton, Raúl H. Spitale, C. Walter Treviño, ‘Aisake K. Tukuafu, Juan A. Urra, Raul S. Villanueva, and Leonard Woo.

Those who wish to join us in expressing appreciation for their excellent service, please manifest it.

It is proposed that we sustain the following as new Area Seventies: Michel J. Carter, Alfred Kyungu, R. Pepper Murray, Ryan K. Olsen, and Iotua Tune.

Those in favor may manifest it.

Those opposed, if any, may manifest it.

It is proposed that we sustain the other General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers of the Church as presently constituted.

All in favor, please manifest it.

Contrary, if there be any, by the same sign.

Those who opposed any of the proposals should contact their stake president.

Brothers and sisters, we are ever grateful for your continued faith and prayers in behalf of the leaders of the Church.