Title: Deceive Me Not
Speaker: By Elder GaryГӮВ E. Stevenson
Calling: 
Date: October 2019
URL: https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference/2019/10/45stevenson?lang=eng

Today, I offer words of counsel for everyone, but especially for you of the rising generationГўВҖВ”Primary children, young men, and young women. You are deeply loved by the LordГўВҖВҷs prophet for our day, President RussellГӮВ M. NelsonГўВҖВ”so much so that he spoke to many of you last year in a special worldwide youth devotional broadcast titled ГўВҖВңHope of Israel.ГўВҖВқ We often hear President Nelson calling you exactly thatГўВҖВ”the ГўВҖВңhope of Israel,ГўВҖВқ the rising generation and the future of the restored Church of Jesus Christ.

My young friends, I would like to begin by sharing two family stories.

Years ago, I arrived home from work and was startled to see white paint splattered everywhereГўВҖВ”on the ground, the garage door, and our red-brick house. I inspected the scene more closely and discovered the paint was still wet. A trail of paint led toward the backyard, and so I followed it. There, I found my five-year-old son with a paintbrush in his hand, chasing our dog. Our beautiful black Labrador was splattered almost half white!

ГўВҖВңWhat are you doing?ГўВҖВқ I asked in an animated voice.

My son stopped, looked at me, looked at the dog, looked at the paintbrush dripping with paint, and said, ГўВҖВңI just want him to look like the black-spotted dogs in the movieГўВҖВ”you know, the one with 101 Dalmatians.ГўВҖВқ

I loved our dog. I thought he was perfect, but that day my son had a different idea.

My second story centers around Great-Uncle Grover, who lived in a house out in the country, far from the city. Uncle Grover was getting very old. We thought our sons should meet him before he died. So, one afternoon, we took a long drive to his humble house. We sat together to visit and introduce him to our sons. Not long into the conversation, our two young boys, maybe five and six years old, wanted to go outside and play.

Uncle Grover, hearing their request, bent over with his face in theirs. His face was so weathered and unfamiliar that the boys were a little scared of him. He said to them, in his gravelly voice, ГўВҖВңBe carefulГўВҖВ”there are a lot of skunks out there.ГўВҖВқ Hearing this, Lesa and I were more than startled; we were worried that they might get sprayed by a skunk! The boys soon went outside to play as we continued to visit.

Later, when we got in the car to go home, I inquired of the boys, ГўВҖВңDid you see a skunk?ГўВҖВқ One of them replied, ГўВҖВңNo, we didnГўВҖВҷt see any skunks, but we did see a black kitty cat with a white stripe on its back!ГўВҖВқ

These stories about innocent children discovering something about life and reality may make each of us smile, but they also illustrate a more profound concept.

In the first story, our young son had a beautiful dog as a pet; notwithstanding, he grabbed a gallon of paint and, with paintbrush in hand, determined to create his own imagined reality.

In the second account, the boys were blissfully unaware of the unsavory threat they faced from a skunk. Unable to properly identify what they had actually encountered, they ran the risk of suffering some unfortunate consequences. These are stories of mistaken identityГўВҖВ”presuming the real thing to be something else. In each case, the consequences were minor.

However, many today grapple with these same issues on a much larger scale. They are either unable to see things as they truly are or are unsatisfied with truth. Moreover, there are forces at play today designed to deliberately lead us away from absolute truth. These deceptions and lies go far beyond innocent mistaken identity and often have dire, not minor, consequences.

Satan, the father of lies and the great deceiver, would have us question things as they really are and either ignore eternal truths or replace them with something that appears more pleasing. ГўВҖВңHe maketh war with the saints of GodГўВҖВқ and has spent millennia calculating and practicing the ability to persuade GodГўВҖВҷs children to believe that good is evil and evil is good.

He has made a reputation for himself convincing mortals that skunks are just kittens or that, with an application of paint, you can turn a Labrador into a Dalmatian!

LetГўВҖВҷs now turn to an example of this very principle found in the scriptures, when the LordГўВҖВҷs prophet Moses came face-to-face with this same issue. ГўВҖВңMoses was caught up into an exceedingly high mountain[;] ГўВҖВҰ he saw God face to face, and he talked with him.ГўВҖВқ God taught Moses about his eternal identity. Though Moses was mortal and imperfect, God taught that Moses was ГўВҖВңin the similitude of mine Only Begotten; and mine Only Begotten ГўВҖВҰ shall be the Savior.ГўВҖВқ

To summarize, in this marvelous vision, Moses beheld God, and he also learned something important about himself: he was indeed a son of God.

Listen carefully to what happened as this wondrous vision closed. ГўВҖВңAnd it came to pass that ГўВҖВҰ Satan came tempting him,ГўВҖВқ saying, ГўВҖВңMoses, son of man, worship me!ГўВҖВқ Moses courageously replied: ГўВҖВңWho art thou? For behold, I am a son of God, in the similitude of his Only Begotten; and where is thy glory, that I should worship thee?ГўВҖВқ

In other words, Moses said: ГўВҖВңYou cannot deceive me, for I know who I am. I was created in the image of God. You donГўВҖВҷt have His light and glory. So why should I worship you or fall prey to your deception?ГўВҖВқ

Now pay attention to how Moses further responds. He declares, ГўВҖВңGet thee hence, Satan; deceive me not.ГўВҖВқ

There is much we can learn from MosesГўВҖВҷs mighty response to temptation from the adversary. I invite you to respond the same way when you feel influenced by temptation. Command the enemy of your soul by saying: ГўВҖВңGo away! You have no glory. Do not tempt or lie to me! For I know I am a child of God. And I will always call upon my God for His help.ГўВҖВқ

The adversary, however, does not easily abandon his destructive motives to deceive and demean us. He certainly did not do so with Moses, instead desiring to cause Moses to forget who he was eternally.

As if he were throwing a childish tantrum, ГўВҖВңSatan cried with a loud voice, and ranted upon the earth, and commanded, saying: I am the Only Begotten, worship me.ГўВҖВқ

LetГўВҖВҷs review. Did you hear what he just said? ГўВҖВңI am the Only Begotten. Worship me!ГўВҖВқ

The great deceiver said, in effect, ГўВҖВңDonГўВҖВҷt worry; I wonГўВҖВҷt harm youГўВҖВ”IГўВҖВҷm not a skunk; I am just an innocent black-and-white kitty cat.ГўВҖВқ

Moses then called upon God and received His divine strength. Even though the adversary trembled and the earth shook, Moses did not yield. His voice was certain and clear. ГўВҖВңDepart from me, Satan,ГўВҖВқ he declared, ГўВҖВңfor this one God only will I worship, which is the God of glory.ГўВҖВқ

Finally, he ГўВҖВңdeparted ГўВҖВҰ from the presence of Moses.ГўВҖВқ

After the Lord appeared and blessed Moses for his obedience, the Lord said:

ГўВҖВңBlessed art thou, Moses, for ГўВҖВҰ thou shalt be made stronger than many waters.ГӮВ ГўВҖВҰ

ГўВҖВңAnd lo, I am with thee, even unto the end of thy days.ГўВҖВқ

MosesГўВҖВҷs resistance of the adversary is a vivid and enlightening example for each of us, no matter our stage in life. It is a powerful message for you personallyГўВҖВ”to know what to do when he tries to deceive you. For you, like Moses, have been blessed with the gift of heavenly help.

How might you find this heavenly help, even as Moses did, and not be deceived or give in to temptation? A clear channel for divine assistance was reaffirmed in this dispensation by the Lord Himself when He declared: ГўВҖВңWherefore, I the Lord, knowing the calamity which should come upon the inhabitants of the earth, called upon my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and spake unto him from heaven, and gave him commandments.ГўВҖВқ Using simpler words, we might say that the Lord, who knows ГўВҖВңthe end from the beginning,ГўВҖВқ knows the unique difficulties of our day. Therefore, He has provided a way for us to resist challenges and temptations, many of which come as a direct result of the deceitful influences of the adversary and his attacks.

The way is simple. Through His servants, God speaks to us, His children, and gives us commandments. We could restate the verse I just quoted to say, ГўВҖВңI the Lord ГўВҖВҰ called upon my servant [President RussellГӮВ M. Nelson], and spake unto him from heaven, and gave him commandments.ГўВҖВқ IsnГўВҖВҷt that a glorious truth?

I bear solemn witness that the Lord did in all reality speak to Joseph Smith from heaven, beginning with the grand First Vision. He also speaks to President Nelson in our time. I testify that God communed with prophets in past ages and gave them commandments designed to lead His children to happiness in this life and glory in the next.

God continues to give commandments to our living prophet today. Examples aboundГўВҖВ”a more home-centered, Church-supported balance in gospel instruction; the replacement of home and visiting teaching with ministering; adjustments to temple procedures and ordinances; and the new Children and Youth program. I marvel at the goodness and compassion of a loving Heavenly Father and His Son, Jesus Christ, who restored the SaviorГўВҖВҷs Church to earth once again and have called a prophet in our day. The Restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ offsets perilous times with the fulness of times.

Obedience to commandments given to our prophet is a key not only in avoiding the influence of the deceiver but also in experiencing lasting joy and happiness. This divine formula is rather simple: righteousness, or obedience to commandments, brings blessings, and blessings bring happiness, or joy, into our lives.

However, in the same way that the adversary tried to deceive Moses, he seeks to trick you. He has always pretended to be something that he is not. He always attempts to hide who he truly is. He claims that obedience will make your life miserable and that it will rob you of happiness.

Can you think of some of his ploys to deceive? For instance, he disguises the destructive consequences of illicit drugs or drinking and instead suggests that it will bring pleasure. He immerses us in the various negative elements that can exist in social media, including debilitating comparisons and idealized reality. In addition, he camouflages other dark, harmful content found online, such as pornography, blatant attacks on others through cyberbullying, and sowing misinformation to cause doubt and fear in our hearts and minds. Cunningly he whispers, ГўВҖВңJust follow me, and you will surely be happy.ГўВҖВқ

The words written so many centuries ago by a Book of Mormon prophet are especially relevant for our day: ГўВҖВңWickedness never was happiness.ГўВҖВқ May we recognize SatanГўВҖВҷs deceptions for what they are. May we withstand and see through the lies and influences of the one who seeks to destroy our souls and steal from us our present joy and future glory.

My dear brothers and sisters, we must continue to be faithful and vigilant, for so is the only way to discern truth and to hear the voice of the Lord through His servants. ГўВҖВңFor the Spirit speaketh the truth and lieth not. ГўВҖВҰ These things are manifested unto us plainly, for the salvation of our souls. ГўВҖВҰ For God also spake them unto prophets of old.ГўВҖВқ We are the Saints of Almighty God, the hope of Israel! Will we falter? ГўВҖВңShall we shrink or shun the fight? No! ГўВҖВҰ To GodГўВҖВҷs command, soul, heart, and hand, faithful and true we will ever stand.ГўВҖВқ

I bear my witness of the Holy One of IsraelГўВҖВ”even the name of Jesus Christ. I testify of His abiding love, truth, and joy that are made possible by His infinite and eternal sacrifice. As we obey His commandments, we will always be led in the right way and will not be deceived. In the sacred name of our Savior, Jesus Christ, amen.