Title: Sustaining of General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers
Speaker: Presented by President HenryĂ‚Â B. Eyring
Calling: 
Date: October 2020
URL: https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference/2020/10/21eyring?lang=eng

Brothers and sisters, I will now present to you the General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers of the Church for your sustaining vote.

It is proposed that we sustain Russell Marion Nelson as prophet, seer, and revelator and President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; Dallin Harris Oaks as First Counselor in the First Presidency; and Henry Bennion Eyring as Second Counselor in the First Presidency.

Those in favor may manifest it.

Those opposed, if any, may manifest it.

It is proposed that we sustain DallinĂ‚Â H. Oaks as President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles and M.Ă‚Â Russell Ballard as Acting President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles.

Those in favor, please signify.

Any opposed may manifest it.

It is proposed that we sustain the following as members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles: M.Ă‚Â Russell Ballard, JeffreyĂ‚Â R. Holland, DieterĂ‚Â F. Uchtdorf, DavidĂ‚Â A. Bednar, QuentinĂ‚Â L. Cook, D.Ă‚Â Todd Christofferson, NeilĂ‚Â L. Andersen, RonaldĂ‚Â A. Rasband, GaryĂ‚Â E. Stevenson, DaleĂ‚Â G. Renlund, GerritĂ‚Â W. Gong, and Ulisses Soares.

Those in favor, please manifest it.

Any opposed may so indicate.

It is proposed that we sustain the counselors in the First Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles as prophets, seers, and revelators.

All in favor, please manifest it.

Contrary, if there be any, by the same sign.

We have released Elders L.Ă‚Â Whitney Clayton, EnriqueĂ‚Â R. Falabella, and RichardĂ‚Â J. Maynes as General Authority Seventies and grant them emeritus status.

Those who wish to join with us in expressing gratitude to these Brethren and to their families for their remarkable service, please so manifest.

We have released Elder L.Ă‚Â Todd Budge as a General Authority Seventy.

All who wish to thank him for his service, please do so by the uplifted hand.

We have released Bishops DeanĂ‚Â M. Davies and W.Ă‚Â Christopher Waddell as First and Second Counselors, respectively, in the Presiding Bishopric.

All who wish to express appreciation to these Brethren for their dedicated service may so indicate.

We have released the following as Area Seventies: Ruben Acosta, RenĂƒÂ©Ă‚Â R. Alba, AlbertoĂ‚Â A. Alvarez, VladimirĂ‚Â N. Astashov, JosĂƒÂ© Batalla, BradfordĂ‚Â C. Bowen, Sergio Luis Carboni, Armando CarreĂƒÂ³n, S.Ă‚Â Marc ClayĂ‚Â Jr., Z.Ă‚Â Dominique Dekaye, OsvaldoĂ‚Â R. Dias, Michael M. Dudley, MarkĂ‚Â P. Durham, E.Ă‚Â Xavier Espinoza, JamesĂ‚Â E. Evanson, PaschoalĂ‚Â F. Fortunato, SamĂ‚Â M. Galvez, PatricioĂ‚Â M. Giuffra, LeonardĂ‚Â D. Greer, DanielĂ‚Â P. Hall, Toru Hayashi, PaulĂ‚Â F. Hintze, AdolfĂ‚Â J. Johansson, Wisit Khanakham, Seung Hoon Koo, PedroĂ‚Â X. Larreal, JohnnyĂ‚Â L. Leota, JosĂƒÂ©Ă‚Â E. Maravilla, Joel Martinez, JoaquimĂ‚Â J. Moreira, IsaacĂ‚Â K. Morrison, EduardoĂ‚Â A. Norambuena, FerdinandĂ‚Â P. Pangan, JairusĂ‚Â C. Perez, StevenĂ‚Â M. Petersen, JayĂ‚Â D. Pimentel, EdvaldoĂ‚Â B. PintoĂ‚Â Jr., AlexeyĂ‚Â V. Samaykin, K.Ă‚Â David Scott, RulonĂ‚Â F. Stacey, KarlĂ‚Â M. Tilleman, WilliamĂ‚Â R. Titera, CarlosĂ‚Â R. Toledo, CesarĂ‚Â E. Villar, DavidĂ‚Â T. Warner, GaryĂ‚Â K. Wilde, and WilliamĂ‚Â B. Woahn.

Those who wish to join us in expressing appreciation for their excellent service, please manifest it.

With Elder L.Ă‚Â Whitney Clayton being released as a General Authority Seventy and being granted emeritus status, he has also been released as a member of the Presidency of the Seventy.

Elder BrentĂ‚Â H. Nielson has been called as a member of the Presidency of the Seventy, and we propose that he be sustained.

All in favor, please manifest it.

Any opposed, please indicate.

It is proposed that we sustain DeanĂ‚Â M. Davies as a General Authority Seventy.

Those in favor, please manifest it.

Any opposed may so signify.

It is proposed that we sustain W.Ă‚Â Christopher Waddell to serve as First Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric and L.Ă‚Â Todd Budge to serve as Second Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric.

Those in favor may manifest it.

Any opposed, by the same sign.

It is proposed that we sustain the following as new Area Seventies: LaurianĂ‚Â P. Balilemwa, JonathonĂ‚Â W. Bunker, EnriqueĂ‚Â R. Mayorga, and Konstantin Tolomeev.

Those in favor may manifest it.

Those opposed, if any, may manifest it.

It is proposed that we sustain the other General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers of the Church as presently constituted.

All in favor, please manifest it.

Contrary, if there be any, by the same sign.

Those who opposed any of the proposals should contact their stake president.

Brothers and sisters, we express gratitude for your continued faith and prayers in behalf of the leaders of the Church.