Title: Sustaining of General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers
Speaker: Presented by President Dallin H. Oaks
Calling: 
Date: April 2020
URL: https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference/2020/04/21oaks?lang=eng

Brothers and sisters, I will now present to you the General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers of the Church for your sustaining vote.

Please express your vote in the usual way wherever you may be. If there are those who oppose any of the proposals as set forth, we ask that you contact your stake president.

It is proposed that we sustain Russell Marion Nelson as prophet, seer, and revelator and President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; Dallin Harris Oaks as First Counselor in the First Presidency; and Henry Bennion Eyring as Second Counselor in the First Presidency.

Those in favor may manifest it.

Those opposed, if any, may manifest it.

It is proposed that we sustain Dallin H. Oaks as President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles and M. Russell Ballard as Acting President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles.

Those in favor, please signify.

Any opposed may manifest it.

It is proposed that we sustain the following as members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles: M. Russell Ballard, Jeffrey R. Holland, Dieter F. Uchtdorf, David A. Bednar, Quentin L. Cook, D. Todd Christofferson, Neil L. Andersen, Ronald A. Rasband, Gary E. Stevenson, Dale G. Renlund, Gerrit W. Gong, and Ulisses Soares.

Those in favor, please manifest it.

Any opposed may so indicate.

It is proposed that we sustain the counselors in the First Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles as prophets, seers, and revelators.

All in favor, please manifest it.

Contrary, if there be any, by the same sign.

It is proposed that we release the following as Area Seventies: Elders Jorge T. Becerra, Mark S. Bryce, Jeremy R. Jaggi, Kelly R. Johnson, Adeyinka A. Ojediran, and Moisés Villanueva.

Those who wish to join us in expressing appreciation for their excellent service, please manifest it.

It is proposed that we release with heartfelt gratitude the Young Men General Presidency as follows: Stephen W. Owen as President, Douglas D. Holmes as First Counselor, and M. Joseph Brough as Second Counselor.

All who wish to join us in expressing appreciation to these brethren for their remarkable service, please manifest it.

It is proposed that we sustain the following as General Authority Seventies: Jorge T. Becerra, Matthew S. Holland, William K. Jackson, Jeremy R. Jaggi, Kelly R. Johnson, Thierry K. Mutombo, Adeyinka A. Ojediran, Ciro Schmeil, and Moisés Villanueva.

All in favor, please manifest it.

Those opposed, by the same sign.

It is proposed that we sustain the following as Area Seventies: Jay D. Andersen, Faapito Auapaau, Frederick K. Balli Jr., Kevin W. Birch, John W. Boswell III, J. Francisco Bührer, Suchat Chaichana, Matthew R. Clarke, L. Guido Cristobal, Edmarc R. Dumas, Carlos A. Gabaldón, M. Andrew Galt IV, Clark G. Gilbert, Leonard D. Greer, Vladislav Y. Gornostaev, D. Martin Goury, Richard I. Heaton, Broc C. Hiatt, David H. Huntsman, Norman C. Insong, Daniel Kabason, Federico M. Kähnlein, Jeffrey J. Kerr, Youngjoon Kwon, David G. LaFrance, Ricardo C. Leite, Marcelo Louza, Jose G. Manarin, Jeremiah J. Morgan, Mark A. Mortensen, Eduardo F. Ortega, Nathan D. Pace, Michael M. Packer, Omar I. Palacios, Jorge W. Pérez, Kyrylo Pokhylko, Sergio A. Poncio, Arthur Rascon, Miguel A. Reynoso, Gustavo G. Rezende, Robert G. Rivarola, Tonga J. Sai, Luciano Sankari, Rosendo Santos, Henry Savstrom, J. Matthew Scott, James E. Slaughter, Robert T. Smith, Ricardo A. Spencer, Colin C. Stauffer, David C. Stewart, Jared W. Stone, Arlen M. Tumaliuan, Martin J. Turvey, Yan C. Vega, Paul B. Whippy, Chad R. Wilkinson, and Dow R. Wilson.

All in favor, please manifest it.

Those opposed, if any.

It is proposed that we sustain as the new Young Men General Presidency Steven J. Lund as President, Ahmad Saleem Corbitt as First Counselor, and Bradley Ray Wilcox as Second Counselor.

Those in favor may manifest it.

Any opposed may so signify.

It is proposed that we sustain the other General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers as presently constituted.

All in favor, please manifest it.

Those opposed, if any.

Again, we invite those who may have opposed any of the proposals to contact their stake presidents.

We thank you for your continued faith and prayers in behalf of the leaders of the Church.