Title: The Exquisite Gift of the Son
Speaker: By Elder MatthewГӮВ S. Holland
Calling: 
Date: October 2020
URL: https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference/2020/10/26holland?lang=eng

While reading the Book of Mormon for a Come, Follow Me lesson last summer, I was struck by AlmaГўВҖВҷs report that when he became fully conscious of his sins, there was ГўВҖВңnothing so exquisite and so bitter as were [his] pains.ГўВҖВқ I confess, talk of exquisite pain caught my attention partly due to my battle that week with a seven-millimeter kidney stone. Never has one man experienced such ГўВҖВңgreat thingsГўВҖВқ when such a ГўВҖВңsmall and simpleГўВҖВқ thing was ГўВҖВңbrought to pass.ГўВҖВқ

AlmaГўВҖВҷs language also stood out to me because the word exquisite, in the English translation of the Book of Mormon, typically describes things of exceptional beauty or unparalleled magnificence. For example, Joseph Smith noted that the angel Moroni wore robes of ГўВҖВңexquisite whiteness,ГўВҖВқ ГўВҖВңa whiteness beyond anything earthly [he] had ever seen.ГўВҖВқ Yet exquisite can also convey an extreme intensity even for awful things. Thus Alma and top dictionaries link exquisite pain to being ГўВҖВңtormented,ГўВҖВқ ГўВҖВңracked,ГўВҖВқ and ГўВҖВңharrowedГўВҖВқ to the ГўВҖВңgreatest degree.ГўВҖВқ

AlmaГўВҖВҷs imagery reflects the sobering reality that at some point the full, excruciating guilt of every sin we commit must be felt. Justice demands it, and God Himself cannot change it. When Alma remembered ГўВҖВңallГўВҖВқ his sinsГўВҖВ”especially those that had destroyed the faith of othersГўВҖВ”his pain was virtually unbearable, and the idea of standing before God filled him with ГўВҖВңinexpressible horror.ГўВҖВқ He yearned to ГўВҖВңbecome extinct both soul and body.ГўВҖВқ

However, Alma said everything started to change the moment his ГўВҖВңmind caught hold uponГўВҖВқ the prophesied ГўВҖВңcoming of one Jesus Christ ГўВҖВҰ to atone for the sins of the worldГўВҖВқ and he ГўВҖВңcried within [his] heart: O Jesus, thou Son of God, have mercy on me.ГўВҖВқ With that one thought and that one plea, Alma was filled with ГўВҖВңexquisiteГўВҖВқ joy ГўВҖВңas exceeding as was [his] pain.ГўВҖВқ

We must never forget that the very purpose of repentance is to take certain misery and transform it into pure bliss. Thanks to His ГўВҖВңimmediate goodness,ГўВҖВқ the instant we come unto ChristГўВҖВ”demonstrating faith in Him and a true change of heartГўВҖВ”the crushing weight of our sins starts to shift from our backs to His. This is possible only because He who is without sin suffered ГўВҖВңthe infinite and unspeakable agonyГўВҖВқ of every single sin in the universe of His creations, for all of His creationsГўВҖВ”a suffering so severe, blood oozed out of His every pore. From direct, personal experience the Savior thus warns us, in modern scripture, that we have no idea how ГўВҖВңexquisiteГўВҖВқ our ГўВҖВңsufferingsГўВҖВқ will be if we do not repent. But with unfathomable generosity He also clarifies that ГўВҖВңI, God, have suffered these things for all, that they might not suffer if they would repentГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”a repentance which allows us to ГўВҖВңtasteГўВҖВқ the ГўВҖВңexceeding joyГўВҖВқ Alma tasted. For this doctrine alone, ГўВҖВңI stand all amazed.ГўВҖВқ Yet, astonishingly, Christ offers even more.

Sometimes exquisite pain comes not from sin but from honest mistakes, the actions of others, or forces beyond our control. In these moments, you may cry like the righteous Psalmist:

ГўВҖВңMy heart is sore pained within me: and the terrors of death are fallen upon me.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҰ And horror hath overwhelmed me.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҰ Oh that I had wings like a dove! for then would I fly away, and be at rest.ГўВҖВқ

Medical science, professional counseling, or legal rectification can help alleviate such suffering. But note, all good giftsГўВҖВ”including theseГўВҖВ”come from the Savior. Regardless of the causes of our worst hurts and heartaches, the ultimate source of relief is the same: Jesus Christ. He alone holds the full power and healing balm to correct every mistake, right every wrong, adjust every imperfection, mend every wound, and deliver every delayed blessing. Like witnesses of old, I testify that ГўВҖВңwe have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmitiesГўВҖВқ but rather a loving Redeemer who descended from His throne above and went forth ГўВҖВңsuffering pains and afflictions and temptations of every kind ГўВҖВҰГӮВ , that he may know ГўВҖВҰ how to succor his people.ГўВҖВқ

For anyone today with pains so intense or so unique that you feel no one else could fully appreciate them, you may have a point. There may be no family member, friend, or priesthood leaderГўВҖВ”however sensitive and well-meaning each may beГўВҖВ”who knows exactly what you are feeling or has the precise words to help you heal. But know this: there is One who understands perfectly what you are experiencing, who is ГўВҖВңmightier than all the earth,ГўВҖВқ and who is ГўВҖВңable to do exceeding abundantly above all that [you] ask or think.ГўВҖВқ The process will unfold in His way and on His schedule, but Christ stands ready always to heal every ounce and aspect of your agony.

As you allow Him to do so, you will discover that your suffering was not in vain. Speaking of many of the BibleГўВҖВҷs greatest heroes and their griefs, the Apostle Paul said that ГўВҖВңGod ГўВҖВҰ provided some better things for them through their sufferings, for without sufferings they could not be made perfect.ГўВҖВқ You see, the very nature of God and aim of our earthly existence is happiness, but we cannot become perfect beings of divine joy without experiences that test us, sometimes to our very core. Paul says even the Savior Himself was made eternally ГўВҖВңperfect [or complete] through sufferings.ГўВҖВқ So guard against the satanic whispering that if you were a better person, you would avoid such trials.

You must also resist the related lie that your sufferings somehow suggest you stand outside the circle of GodГўВҖВҷs chosen ones, who seem to glide from one blessed state to another. Instead, see yourself as John the Revelator surely saw you in his majestic revelation of the latter days. For John saw ГўВҖВңa great multitude, which no man could number, of all nations, and kindreds, and people, and tongues, [who] stood before the throne, and before the Lamb, clothed with white robes, ГўВҖВҰ [who] cried with a loud voice, saying, Salvation to our God.ГўВҖВқ

When asked: ГўВҖВңWhat are these which are arrayed in white robes? and whence came they?ГўВҖВқ John received the answer: ГўВҖВңThese are they which came out of great tribulation, and have washed their robes, and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.ГўВҖВқ

Brothers and sisters, suffering in righteousness helps qualify you for, rather than distinguishes you from, GodГўВҖВҷs elect. And it makes their promises your promises. As John declares, you ГўВҖВңshall hunger no more, neither thirst any more; neither shall the sun light on [you], nor any heat. For the Lamb which is in the midst of the throne shall feed [you], and shall lead [you] unto living fountains of waters: and God shall wipe away all tears from [your] eyes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain.ГўВҖВқ

I witness to you that through the staggering goodness of Jesus Christ and His infinite Atonement, we can escape the deserved agonies of our moral failings and overcome the undeserved agonies of our mortal misfortunes. Under His direction, your divine destiny will be one of unparalleled magnificence and indescribable joyГўВҖВ”a joy so intense and so unique to you, your particular ГўВҖВңashesГўВҖВқ will become beauties ГўВҖВңbeyond anything earthly.ГўВҖВқ That you might taste this happiness now and be filled with it forever, I invite you to do what Alma did: let your mind catch hold on the exquisite gift of the Son of God as revealed through His gospel in this, His true and living Church. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.