Title: The Healing Power of Jesus Christ
Speaker: By CristinaГӮВ B. Franco
Calling: 
Date: October 2020
URL: https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference/2020/10/34franco?lang=eng

Since the beginning of this year, we have dealt with many unexpected events. The loss of life and income due to the worldwide pandemic has seriously affected the global community and economy.

Earthquakes, fires, and floods in different parts of the world, as well as other weather-related disasters, have left people feeling helpless, hopeless, and brokenhearted, wondering if their lives will ever be the same.

Let me tell you a personal story about brokenness.

When our children were young, they decided they wanted to take piano lessons. My husband, Rudy, and I wanted to provide our children this opportunity, but we had no piano. We could not afford a new piano, so Rudy started looking for a used one.

That year for Christmas, he surprised us all with a piano, and through the years, our children learned to play.

When our sons grew up and left the house, the old piano just collected dust, so we sold it. A few years went by, and we had saved some money. One day Rudy said, ГўВҖВңI think itГўВҖВҷs time we get a new piano.ГўВҖВқ

I asked, ГўВҖВңWhy would we get a new piano, when neither of us plays?ГўВҖВқ

He said, ГўВҖВңOh, but we can get a piano that plays itself! By using an iPad, you can program the piano to play over 4,000 songs, including hymns, Tabernacle Choir songs, all the Primary songs, and so many more.ГўВҖВқ

Rudy is a great salesperson, to say the least.

We purchased a beautiful new player piano, and a few days later, two big, strong men delivered it to our house.

I showed them where I wanted it and moved out of the way.

It was a heavy baby grand, and to fit it through the door, they removed the legs and managed to put the piano sideways on top of a moving dolly that they had brought with them.

Our house sat on a little bit of a slope, and unfortunately earlier that day it had snowed, leaving things wet and slushy. Can you see where this is going?

While the men were moving the piano up the little slope, it slipped, and I heard a big, loud crash. The piano had fallen off the moving dolly and hit the ground so hard that it left a big dent in our lawn.

I said, ГўВҖВңOh, my goodness. Are you OK?ГўВҖВқ

Thankfully both men were OK.

Their eyes were wide as they looked at each other, then looked at me and said, ГўВҖВңWe are so sorry. WeГўВҖВҷll take it back to the store and have our manager call you.ГўВҖВқ

Soon the manager was talking with Rudy to arrange delivery of a new piano. Rudy is kind and forgiving and told the manager it was OK if they just repaired the damage and brought back the same piano, but the manager insisted on getting us a new one.

Rudy responded, saying, ГўВҖВңIt couldnГўВҖВҷt be that bad. Just fix it up and bring it over.ГўВҖВқ

The manager said, ГўВҖВңThe wood is broken, and once the wood is broken, it can never sound the same. You will get a new piano.ГўВҖВқ

Sisters and brothers, arenГўВҖВҷt we all like this piano, a little broken, cracked, and damaged, feeling like we will never be the same again? However, as we come unto Jesus Christ by exercising faith in Him, repenting, and making and keeping covenants, our brokennessГўВҖВ”whatever its causeГўВҖВ”can be healed. This process, which invites the SaviorГўВҖВҷs healing power into our lives, does not just restore us to what we were before but makes us better than we ever were. I know that through our Savior, Jesus Christ, we can all be mended, made whole, and fulfill our purpose, just like a beautiful-sounding, brand-new piano.

President RussellГӮВ M. Nelson taught: ГўВҖВңWhen sore trials come upon us, itГўВҖВҷs time to deepen our faith in God, to work hard, and to serve others. Then He will heal our broken hearts. He will bestow upon us personal peace and comfort. Those great gifts will not be destroyed, even by death.ГўВҖВқ

Jesus said:

ГўВҖВңCome unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.

ГўВҖВңTake my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls.

ГўВҖВңFor my yoke is easy, and my burden is lightГўВҖВқ (Matthew 11:28ГўВҖВ“30).

To heal brokenness by coming unto Him, we need to have faith in Jesus Christ. ГўВҖВңHaving faith in Jesus Christ means relying completely on HimГўВҖВ”trusting in His infinite power ГўВҖВҰ and love. It includes believing His teachings. It means believing that even though we do not understand all things, He does. Because He has experienced all our pains, afflictions, and infirmities, He knows how to help us rise above our daily difficulties.ГўВҖВқ

As we come unto Him, ГўВҖВңwe can be filled with joy, peace, and consolation. All that is [hard and challenging] about life can be made right through the Atonement of Jesus Christ.ГўВҖВқ He has counseled us, ГўВҖВңLook unto me in every thought; doubt not, fear notГўВҖВқ (Doctrine and Covenants 6:36).

In the Book of Mormon when Alma and his people were nearly crushed by the burdens placed upon them, the people pleaded for relief. The Lord didnГўВҖВҷt take away their burdens; instead He promised them:

ГўВҖВңAnd I will also ease the burdens which are put upon your shoulders, that even you cannot feel them upon your backs, even while you are in bondage; and this will I do that ye may stand as witnesses for me hereafter, and that ye may know of a surety that I, the Lord God, do visit my people in their afflictions.

ГўВҖВңAnd now it came to pass that the burdens which were laid upon Alma and his brethren were made light; yea, the Lord did strengthen them that they could bear up their burdens with ease, and they did submit cheerfully and with patience to all the will of the LordГўВҖВқ (Mosiah 24:14ГўВҖВ“15).

Of the SaviorГўВҖВҷs ability to heal and lighten burdens, Elder TadГӮВ R. Callister has taught:

ГўВҖВңOne of the blessings of the Atonement is that we can receive of the SaviorГўВҖВҷs succoring powers. Isaiah spoke repeatedly of the LordГўВҖВҷs healing, calming influence. He testified that the Savior was ГўВҖВҳa strength to the needy in his distress, a refuge from the storm, a shadow from the heatГўВҖВҷ (Isaiah 25:4). As to those who sorrow, Isaiah declared that the Savior possessed the power to ГўВҖВҳcomfort all that mournГўВҖВҷ (Isaiah 61:2), and ГўВҖВҳwipe away tears from off all facesГўВҖВҷ (Isaiah 25:8; see also Revelation 7:17); ГўВҖВҳrevive the spirit of the humbleГўВҖВҷ (Isaiah 57:15); and ГўВҖВҳbind up the brokenheartedГўВҖВҷ (Isaiah 61:1; see also Luke 4:18; Psalm 147:3). So expansive was his succoring power that he could exchange ГўВҖВҳbeauty for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, the garment of praise for the spirit of heavinessГўВҖВҷ (Isaiah 61:3).

ГўВҖВңOh, what hope soars in those promises! ГўВҖВҰ His spirit heals; it refines; it comforts; it breathes new life into hopeless hearts. It has the power to transform all that is ugly and vicious and worthless in life to something of supreme and glorious splendor. He has the power to convert the ashes of mortality to the beauties of eternity.ГўВҖВқ

I testify that Jesus Christ is our loving Savior, our Redeemer, the Master Healer, and our faithful friend. If we turn to Him, He will heal us and make us whole again. I testify this is His Church and He is preparing to return once again to reign with power and glory on this earth. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.