Title: Sustaining of General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers
Speaker: Presented by President Dallin H. Oaks
Calling: 
Date: April 2022
URL: https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference/2022/04/21oaks?lang=eng

Brothers and sisters, I will now present the General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers of the Church to be sustained.

Please express your support in the usual way wherever you may be. If there are those who oppose any of the proposals, we ask that you contact your stake president.

It is proposed that we sustain Russell Marion Nelson as prophet, seer, and revelator and President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; Dallin Harris Oaks as First Counselor in the First Presidency; and Henry Bennion Eyring as Second Counselor in the First Presidency.

Those in favor may manifest it.

Those opposed, if any, may manifest it.

It is proposed that we sustain Dallin H. Oaks as President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles and M. Russell Ballard as Acting President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles.

Those in favor, please signify.

Any opposed may manifest it.

It is proposed that we sustain the following as members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles: M. Russell Ballard, Jeffrey R. Holland, Dieter F. Uchtdorf, David A. Bednar, Quentin L. Cook, D. Todd Christofferson, Neil L. Andersen, Ronald A. Rasband, Gary E. Stevenson, Dale G. Renlund, Gerrit W. Gong, and Ulisses Soares.

Those in favor, please manifest it.

Any opposed may so indicate.

It is proposed that we sustain the counselors in the First Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles as prophets, seers, and revelators.

All in favor, please manifest it.

Contrary, if there be any, by the same sign.

The following Area Seventies have been released from their assignments: Mark D. Eddy, Ryan K. Olsen, Jonathan S. Schmitt, and Denelson Silva.

Those who wish to join us in expressing appreciation for their excellent service, please manifest it.

We have extended releases to the Relief Society General Presidency to be effective on August 1, 2022, as follows: Jean B. Bingham as President, Sharon Eubank as First Counselor, and Reyna I. Aburto as Second Counselor.

We have also extended releases to the Primary General Presidency, which will be effective on August 1, 2022, as follows: Camille N. Johnson as President, Susan H. Porter as First Counselor, and Amy A. Wright as Second Counselor.

All who wish to join us in expressing appreciation to these sisters for their devoted service, please manifest it.

It is proposed that we sustain the following as General Authority Seventies: Mark D. Eddy, James W. McConkie III, Isaac K. Morrison, Ryan K. Olsen, Jonathan S. Schmitt, and Denelson Silva.

All in favor, please manifest it.

Those opposed, by the same sign.

We note that 45 new Area Seventies were sustained during the general conference leadership meeting on Thursday, March 31, and then announced on newsroom.ChurchofJesusChrist.org earlier this week.

We invite you to sustain them in their new assignments.

Those in favor, please manifest it.

Any opposed, by the same sign.

It is proposed that we sustain the following as the new Relief Society General Presidency, to be effective on August 1, 2022: Camille N. Johnson as President, Jeannie Anette Dennis as First Counselor, and Kristin Mae Yee as Second Counselor.

Those in favor may manifest it.

Any opposed may so signify.

It is proposed that we sustain the following as the new Primary General Presidency, also to be effective on August 1, 2022: Susan H. Porter as President, Amy A. Wright as First Counselor, and Tracy Y. Browning as Second Counselor.

All in favor may manifest it.

Any opposed may so manifest.

It is proposed that we sustain the other General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers as presently constituted.

All in favor, please manifest it.

Those opposed, if any.

Thank you, brothers and sisters, for your continued faith and prayers on behalf of the leaders of the Church.

The following Area Seventies were sustained during a leadership session held as part of general conference:

Elzimar Gouvêa de Albuquerque, Roland J. Bäck, Raúl Barrón, Bruno V. Barros, Eric Baxter, Oscar Bedregal, Joep Boom, Michael P. Brady, Randall A. Brown, Kennedy F. Canuto, Stephen K. Christensen, Nathan A. Craig, Mark Anthony Dundon, Favio M. Durán, Amândio A. Feijó, Claude R. Gamiette, Scott L. Hymas, Jason C. Jensen, Roberto G. F. Leite, John W. Lewis, Paulo Renato Marinho, Blaine R. Maxfield, Eduardo R. Mora, David Ngabizele, João Luis Oppe, Justice N. Otuonye, Emanuel Petrignani, Daniel Piros, Craig W. J. Raeside, Nelson Ramírez, Alexey V. Samaykin, Jose Antonio San Gabriel, Jose Estuardo Sazo, Steven D. Shumway, Oswaldo J. Soto, Mark G. Stewart, Scott N. Taylor, Roseveltt de Pina Teixeira, Gordon L. Treadway, Harold Truque, Nikolai Ustyuzhaninov, Carlos Ernesto Velasco, Kyle A. Vest, Sergio Villa, and Min Zu Wang.