Title: The Doctrine of Belonging
Speaker: By Elder D.ГӮВ Todd Christofferson
Calling: 
Date: October 2022
URL: https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference/2022/10/28christofferson?lang=eng

I would like to speak about what I call the doctrine of belonging in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. This doctrine has three parts: (1)ГӮВ the role of belonging in gathering the LordГўВҖВҷs covenant people, (2)ГӮВ the importance of service and sacrifice in belonging, and (3)ГӮВ the centrality of Jesus Christ to belonging.

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in its early beginnings was made up largely of white North American and northern European Saints with a relative handful of Native Americans, African Americans, and Pacific Islanders. Now, eight years away from the 200th anniversary of its founding, the Church has greatly increased in numbers and diversity in North America and even more so in the rest of the world.

As the long-prophesied latter-day gathering of the LordГўВҖВҷs covenant people gains momentum, the Church will truly be composed of members from every nation, kindred, tongue, and people.1 This is not a calculated or forced diversity but a naturally occurring phenomenon that we would expect, recognizing that the gospel net gathers from every nation and every people.

How blessed we are to see the day that Zion is being established simultaneously on every continent and in our own neighborhoods. As the Prophet Joseph Smith said, the people of God in every age have looked forward with joyful anticipation to this day, and ГўВҖВңwe are the favored people that God has made choice of to bring about the Latter-day glory.ГўВҖВқ2

Having been given this privilege, we cannot permit any racism, tribal prejudice, or other divisions to exist in the latter-day Church of Christ. The Lord commands us, ГўВҖВңBe one; and if ye are not one ye are not mine.ГўВҖВқ3 We should be diligent in rooting prejudice and discrimination out of the Church, out of our homes, and, most of all, out of our hearts. As our Church population grows ever more diverse, our welcome must grow ever more spontaneous and warm. We need one another.4

In his First Epistle to the Corinthians, Paul declares that all who are baptized into the Church are one in the body of Christ:

ГўВҖВңFor as the body is one, and hath many members, and all the members of that one body, being many, are one body: so also is Christ.

ГўВҖВңFor by one Spirit are we all baptized into one body, whether we be Jews or Gentiles, whether we be bond or free; and have been all made to drink into one Spirit. ГўВҖВҰ

ГўВҖВңThat there should be no schism in the body; but that the members should have the same care one for another.

ГўВҖВңAnd whether one member suffer, all the members suffer with it; or one member be honoured, all the members rejoice with it.ГўВҖВқ5

A sense of belonging is important to our physical, mental, and spiritual well-being. Yet it is quite possible that at times each of us might feel that we donГўВҖВҷt fit in. In discouraging moments, we may feel that we will never measure up to the LordГўВҖВҷs high standards or the expectations of others.6 We may unwittingly impose expectations on othersГўВҖВ”or even ourselvesГўВҖВ”that are not the LordГўВҖВҷs expectations. We may communicate in subtle ways that the worth of a soul is based on certain achievements or callings, but these are not the measure of our standing in the LordГўВҖВҷs eyes. ГўВҖВңThe Lord looketh on the heart.ГўВҖВқ7 He cares about our desires and longings and what we are becoming.8

Sister Jodi King wrote of her own experience of past years:

ГўВҖВңI never felt like I didnГўВҖВҷt belong at church until my husband, Cameron, and I began struggling with infertility. The children and families who had typically brought me joy to see at church now started causing me grief and pain.

ГўВҖВңI felt barren without a child in my arms or a diaper bag in hand. ГўВҖВҰ

ГўВҖВңThe hardest Sunday was our first one in a new ward. Because we didnГўВҖВҷt have kids, we were asked if we were newlyweds and when we planned on starting a family. I had gotten pretty good at answering these questions without letting them affect meГўВҖВ”I knew they werenГўВҖВҷt meant to be hurtful.

ГўВҖВңHowever, on this particular Sunday, answering those questions was especially hard. We had just found out, after being hopeful, that we wereГўВҖВ”yet againГўВҖВ”not pregnant.

ГўВҖВңI walked into sacrament meeting feeling downtrodden, and answering those typical ГўВҖВҳget to know youГўВҖВҷ questions was hard for me.ГӮВ ГўВҖВҰ

ГўВҖВңBut it was Sunday School that truly broke my heart. The lessonГўВҖВ”intended to be about the divine role of mothersГўВҖВ”quickly shifted gears and became a vent[ing] session. My heart sank and tears silently flowed down my cheeks as I heard women complain about a blessing I would give anything for.

ГўВҖВңI bolted out of church. At first, I didnГўВҖВҷt want to go back. I didnГўВҖВҷt want to experience that feeling of isolation again. But that night, after talking with my husband, we knew we would keep attending church not only because the Lord has asked us to but also because we both knew that the joy that comes from renewing covenants and feeling the Spirit at church surpasses the sadness I felt that day.ГӮВ ГўВҖВҰ

ГўВҖВңIn the Church, there are widowed, divorced, and single members; those with family members who have fallen away from the gospel; people with chronic illnesses or financial struggles; members who experience same-sex attraction; members working to overcome addictions or doubts; recent converts; new move-ins; empty-nesters; and the list goes on and on.ГӮВ ГўВҖВҰ

ГўВҖВңThe Savior invites us to come unto HimГўВҖВ”no matter our circumstances. We come to church to renew our covenants, to increase our faith, to find peace, and to do as He did perfectly in His lifeГўВҖВ”minister to others who feel like they donГўВҖВҷt belong.ГўВҖВқ9

Paul explained that the Church and its officers are given by God ГўВҖВңfor the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ:

ГўВҖВңTill we all come in the unity of the faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ.ГўВҖВқ10

It is a sad irony, then, when someone, feeling he or she doesnГўВҖВҷt meet the ideal in all aspects of life, concludes that he doesnГўВҖВҷt or she doesnГўВҖВҷt belong in the very organization designed by God to help us progress toward the ideal.

Let us leave judgment in the LordГўВҖВҷs hands and those He has commissioned and be content to love and treat each other the best we can. Let us ask Him to show us the way, day by day, to ГўВҖВңbring in ГўВҖВҰ the poor, and the maimed, and the halt, and the blindГўВҖВқ11ГўВҖВ”that is, everyoneГўВҖВ”to the great feast of the Lord.

A second facet of the doctrine of belonging has to do with our own contributions. Although we rarely think about it, much of our belonging comes from our service and the sacrifices we make for others and for the Lord. Excessive focus on our personal needs or our own comfort can frustrate that sense of belonging.

We strive to follow the SaviorГўВҖВҷs doctrine:

ГўВҖВңWhosoever will be great among you, shall be your minister.ГӮВ ГўВҖВҰ

ГўВҖВңFor even the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many.ГўВҖВқ12

Belonging comes not as we wait for it but as we reach out to help one another.

Today, unfortunately, consecrating oneself to a cause or sacrificing anything for anyone else is becoming countercultural. In a piece for Deseret Magazine last year, author Rod Dreher recounted a conversation with a young mother in Budapest:

ГўВҖВңI am on a Budapest tram with a ГўВҖВҰ friend in her early 30sГўВҖВ”letГўВҖВҷs call her KristinaГўВҖВ”while we are on the way to interview an older [Christian] woman who, with her late husband, withstood persecution by the communist state. As we bump along the cityГўВҖВҷs streets, Kristina talks about how hard it is to be honest with friends her age about the struggles she faces as a wife and mother of young children.

ГўВҖВңKristinaГўВҖВҷs difficulties are completely ordinary for a young woman learning how to be a mom and a wifeГўВҖВ”yet the prevailing attitude among her generation is that lifeГўВҖВҷs difficulties are a threat to oneГўВҖВҷs well-being and should be refused. Do she and her husband argue at times? Then she should leave him, they say. Are her children annoying her? Then she should send them to day care.

ГўВҖВңKristina worries that her friends donГўВҖВҷt grasp that trials, and even suffering, are a normal part of lifeГўВҖВ”and maybe even part of a good life, if that suffering teaches us how to be patient, kind and loving.ГӮВ ГўВҖВҰ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҰГӮВ University of Notre Dame sociologist of religion Christian Smith found in his study of adults [ages] 18 to 23 that most of them believe society is nothing more than ГўВҖВҳa collection of autonomous individuals out to enjoy life.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ13

By this philosophy, anything that one finds difficult ГўВҖВңis a form of oppression.ГўВҖВқ14

By contrast, our pioneer forebears derived a deep sense of belonging, unity, and hope in Christ by the sacrifices they made to serve missions, build temples, abandon comfortable homes under duress and begin again, and in a multitude of other ways consecrate themselves and their means to the cause of Zion. They were willing to sacrifice even their lives if necessary. And we are all the beneficiaries of their endurance. The same is true for many today who may lose family and friends, forfeit employment opportunities, or otherwise suffer discrimination or intolerance as a consequence of being baptized. Their reward, however, is a powerful sense of belonging among the covenant people. Any sacrifice we make in the LordГўВҖВҷs cause helps to confirm our place with Him who gave His life a ransom for many.

The final and most important element of the doctrine of belonging is the central role of Jesus Christ. We donГўВҖВҷt join the Church for fellowship alone, important as that is. We join for redemption through the love and grace of Jesus Christ. We join to secure the ordinances of salvation and exaltation for ourselves and those we love on both sides of the veil. We join to participate in a great project to establish Zion in preparation for the LordГўВҖВҷs return.

The Church is the custodian of the covenants of salvation and exaltation that God offers us through the ordinances of the holy priesthood.15 It is by keeping these covenants that we obtain the highest and deepest sense of belonging. President RussellГӮВ M. Nelson recently wrote:

ГўВҖВңOnce you and I have made a covenant with God, our relationship with Him becomes much closer than before our covenant. Now we are bound together. Because of our covenant with God, He will never tire in His efforts to help us, and we will never exhaust His merciful patience with us. Each of us has a special place in GodГўВҖВҷs heart. ГўВҖВҰ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҰГӮВ Jesus Christ is the guarantor of those covenants (see Hebrews 7:22; 8:6).ГўВҖВқ16

If we will remember this, the LordГўВҖВҷs high hopes for us will inspire, not discourage, us.

We can feel joy as we pursue, individually and communally, ГўВҖВңthe measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ.ГўВҖВқ17 Despite disappointments and setbacks along the way, it is a grand quest. We lift and encourage each other in pursuing the upward path, knowing that no matter tribulation and no matter delays in promised blessings, we can ГўВҖВңbe of good cheer; [for Christ has] overcome the world,ГўВҖВқ18 and we are with Him. Being one with the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit is without doubt the ultimate in belonging.19

Thus, the doctrine of belonging comes down to thisГўВҖВ”each one of us can affirm: Jesus Christ died for me; He thought me worthy of His blood. He loves me and can make all the difference in my life. As I repent, His grace will transform me. I am one with Him in the gospel covenant; I belong in His Church and kingdom; and I belong in His cause to bring redemption to all of GodГўВҖВҷs children.

I testify you do belong, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.