Title: We Are The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Speaker: By ReynaГӮВ I. Aburto
Calling: 
Date: April 2022
URL: https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference/2022/04/13aburto?lang=eng

After receiving an invitation to ГўВҖВңcome and see,ГўВҖВқ1 I attended The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints for the first time at the age of 26. I had recently separated from my first husband. I had a three-year-old boy. And I felt powerless with fear. When I entered the building, I was filled with warmth as I perceived the faith and joy of the people surrounding me. It was truly ГўВҖВңa refuge from the storm.ГўВҖВқ2 Three weeks later, I made the baptismal covenant with Heavenly Father and started my journey as a disciple of Christ, although my life has not been perfect along that journey.

For me to receive those eternal blessings, many physical and spiritual elements had to be in place. The gospel of Jesus Christ had been restored and preached; that meetinghouse had been built and maintained; there was an ecclesiastical structure, from the prophet to local leaders; and a branch filled by covenant members was ready to embrace me and my son as we were brought to the Savior, ГўВҖВңnourished by the good word of God,ГўВҖВқ3 and given opportunities to serve.4

From the beginning, God has sought to gather and organize His children5 ГўВҖВңto bring to pass [our] immortality and eternal life.ГўВҖВқ6 With that purpose in mind, He has instructed us to build places of worship7 where we receive knowledge and the ordinances of salvation and exaltation; make and keep covenants that bind us to Jesus Christ;8 are endowed with ГўВҖВңthe power of godlinessГўВҖВқ;9 and gather together often to remember Jesus and strengthen each other in Him.10 The Church organization and its buildings exist for our spiritual benefit. ГўВҖВңThe Church ГўВҖВҰ is the scaffolding with which we build eternal families.ГўВҖВқ11

While talking to a friend going through a difficult time, I asked how he was surviving financially. In tears, he replied that his bishop was helping him using fast-offering funds. He added, ГўВҖВңI donГўВҖВҷt know where my family and I would be if it wasnГўВҖВҷt for the Church.ГўВҖВқ I replied, ГўВҖВңThe Church is the members. They are the ones who willingly and joyfully give fast offerings to help those of us in need. You are receiving the fruits of their faith and determination to follow Jesus Christ.ГўВҖВқ

My fellow disciples of Christ, let us not underestimate the marvelous work the Lord is doing through us, His Church, despite our shortcomings. Sometimes we are givers and sometimes we are receivers, but we are all one family in Christ. His Church is the structure He has given to guide and bless us as we worship Him and serve each other.

Some sisters have apologized to me, thinking they are not active members of Relief Society because they are serving in Primary or Young Women. Those sisters are among the most active members of Relief Society because they are helping our precious children and youth strengthen their faith in Jesus Christ.

Relief Society is not limited to a room in a building, a Sunday lesson, an activity, or a presidency at the local or general level. Relief Society is the covenant women of the Church; it is usГўВҖВ”each of us and all of us. It is our ГўВҖВңglobal community of compassion and service.ГўВҖВқ12 Anywhere and everywhere we go, we are always part of Relief Society as we strive to fulfill its divine purpose, which is for women to accomplish GodГўВҖВҷs work in individual as well as collective ways13 by providing relief: ГўВҖВңrelief of poverty, relief of illness; relief of doubt, relief of ignoranceГўВҖВ”relief of all that hinders ГўВҖВҰ joy and progress.ГўВҖВқ14

Similar belonging exists in elders quorums and organizations of the Church for all ages, including our children and youth. The Church is more than the buildings and the ecclesiastical structure; the Church is us, the members. We are The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, with Christ at the head and the prophet as His mouthpiece. The Lord has said:

ГўВҖВңBehold, this is my doctrineГўВҖВ”whosoever repenteth and cometh unto me, the same is my church.ГӮВ ГўВҖВҰ

ГўВҖВңAnd ГўВҖВҰ whosoever is of my church, and endureth of my church to the end, him will I establish upon my rock.ГўВҖВқ15

Sisters and brothers, let us realize how privileged we are to belong to the Church of Jesus Christ, where we can unite our faith, hearts, strengths, minds, and hands for Him to perform His mighty miracles. ГўВҖВңFor the body [of ChristГўВҖВҷs Church] is not one member, but many.ГўВҖВқ16

A teenage boy told his mother, ГўВҖВңWhen I was little, every time I gave one dollar in tithing, I thought that with that one dollar a whole meetinghouse would be built. IsnГўВҖВҷt that silly?ГўВҖВқ

Touched, she replied, ГўВҖВңThat is lovely! Did you picture them in your mind?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes!ГўВҖВқ he exclaimed. ГўВҖВңThey were beautiful, and there were millions of them!ГўВҖВқ17

My dear friends, let us have the faith of a child and rejoice in knowing that even our smallest efforts are making a significant difference in GodГўВҖВҷs kingdom.

Our purpose in His kingdom should be to bring each other to Christ. As we read in the scriptures, the Savior extended this invitation to the Nephites:

ГўВҖВңHave ye any that are sick among you? Bring them hither. Have ye any that are ГўВҖВҰ afflicted in any manner? Bring them hither and I will heal them, for I have compassion upon you; my bowels are filled with mercy.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҰГӮВ I see that your faith is sufficient that I should heal you.ГўВҖВқ18

Do we not all have afflictions that can be brought to the SaviorГўВҖВҷs feet? While some of us have physical challenges, many more battle with emotional strife, others struggle to nurture social connections, and we all seek respite when our spirits are challenged. We are all afflicted in some manner.

We read that ГўВҖВңall the multitude, with one accord, did go forth with their sick and ГўВҖВҰ with all them that were afflicted in any manner; and he did heal them every one as they were brought forth unto him.

ГўВҖВңAnd they did all, both they who had been healed and they who were whole, bow down at his feet, and did worship him.ГўВҖВқ19

From a little boy who pays tithing with faith, to a single mother in need of the LordГўВҖВҷs empowering grace, to a father struggling to provide for his family, to our ancestors in need of the ordinances of salvation and exaltation, to each of us who renews covenants with God every week, we need each other, and we can bring each other to the SaviorГўВҖВҷs redeeming healing.

My dear sisters and brothers, let us follow Jesus ChristГўВҖВҷs invitation to bring ourselves and our afflictions to Him. When we come to Him and bring those we love to Him, He sees our faith. He will make them whole, and He will make us whole.

As ГўВҖВңthe peaceable followers of Christ,ГўВҖВқ20 we are striving to become ГўВҖВңof one heart and one mindГўВҖВқ21 and to be humble; submissive; gentle; easy to be entreated; full of patience and long-suffering; temperate in all things; diligent in keeping the commandments of God at all times; full of faith, hope, and charity; and abounding in good works.22 We are striving to become like Jesus Christ.

I testify that as ChristГўВҖВҷs Church, we are the means through which, as President RussellГӮВ M. Nelson taught, ГўВҖВңour Savior and Redeemer, Jesus Christ, will perform some of His mightiest works between now and when He comes again.ГўВҖВқ23

The Lord has said:

ГўВҖВңBehold, I will hasten my work in its time.

ГўВҖВңAnd I give unto you ГўВҖВҰ a commandment that you assemble yourselves together, and organize yourselves, and prepare yourselves, and sanctify yourselves; yea, purify your hearts, and cleanse your hands and your feet before me, that I may make you clean.ГўВҖВқ24

May we respond to this divine invitation and joyfully assemble, organize, prepare, and sanctify ourselves is my humble prayer in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.