Title: Put On Thy Strength, O Zion
Speaker: By Elder DavidГӮВ A. Bednar
Calling: 
Date: October 2022
URL: https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference/2022/10/46bednar?lang=eng

Parables are a defining feature of the Lord Jesus ChristГўВҖВҷs masterful approach to teaching. Simply defined, the SaviorГўВҖВҷs parables are stories used to compare spiritual truths with material things and mortal experiences. For example, the New Testament Gospels are replete with teachings likening the kingdom of heaven to a grain of mustard seed,1 to a pearl of great price,2 to a householder and laborers in his vineyard,3 to ten virgins,4 and to many other things. During part of the LordГўВҖВҷs Galilean ministry, the scriptures indicate that ГўВҖВңwithout a parable spake he not unto them.ГўВҖВқ5

The intended meaning or message of a parable typically is not expressed explicitly. Rather, the story only conveys divine truth to a receiver in proportion to his or her faith in God, personal spiritual preparation, and willingness to learn. Thus, an individual must exercise moral agency and actively ГўВҖВңask, seek, and knockГўВҖВқ6 to discover the truths embedded in a parable.

I earnestly pray that the Holy Ghost will enlighten each of us as we now consider the importance of the parable of the royal marriage feast.

ГўВҖВңAnd Jesus ГўВҖВҰ spake unto them again by parables, and said,

ГўВҖВңThe kingdom of heaven is like unto a certain king, which made a marriage for his son,

ГўВҖВңAnd sent forth his servants to call them that were bidden to the wedding: and they would not come.

ГўВҖВңAgain, he sent forth other servants, saying, Tell them which are bidden, Behold, I have prepared my dinner: my oxen and my fatlings are killed, and all things are ready: come unto the marriage.

ГўВҖВңBut they made light of it, and went their ways, one to his farm, another to his merchandise.ГўВҖВқ7

In ancient times, one of the most joyous occasions in Jewish life was a wedding celebrationГўВҖВ”an event that would span a week or even two. Such an event required extensive planning, and guests were informed far in advance, with a reminder sent on the opening day of the festivities. An invitation from a king to his subjects to a wedding such as this was essentially considered a command. Yet, many of the bidden guests in this parable did not come.8

ГўВҖВңThe refusal to attend the kingГўВҖВҷs feast was a deliberate [act of] rebellion against ГўВҖВҰ royal authority and a personal indignity against both the reigning sovereign and his son. ГўВҖВҰ The turning away by one man to his farm and by another to his [business interests]ГўВҖВқ9 reflects their misguided priorities and total disregard of the kingГўВҖВҷs will.10

The parable continues:

ГўВҖВңThen saith he to his servants, The wedding is ready, but they which were bidden were not worthy.

ГўВҖВңGo ye therefore into the highways, and as many as ye shall find, bid to the marriage.

ГўВҖВңSo those servants went out into the highways, and gathered together all as many as they found, both bad and good: and the wedding was furnished with guests.ГўВҖВқ11

The custom in those days was for the host of a wedding feastГўВҖВ”in this parable, the kingГўВҖВ”to provide garments for the wedding guests. Such wedding garments were simple, nondescript robes that all attendees wore. In this way, rank and station were eliminated, and everyone at the feast could mingle as equals.12

People invited from the highways to attend the wedding would not have had the time or means to procure appropriate attire in preparation for the event. Consequently, the king likely gave guests the garments from his own wardrobe. Everyone was given the opportunity to clothe themselves in garments of royalty.13

As the king entered the wedding hall, he surveyed the audience and immediately noticed that one conspicuous guest was not wearing a wedding garment. The man was brought forward, and the king asked, ГўВҖВңFriend, how camest thou in hither not having a wedding garment? And he was speechless.ГўВҖВқ14 In essence, the king asked, ГўВҖВңWhy are you not wearing a wedding garment, even though one was provided for you?ГўВҖВқ15

The man obviously was not dressed properly for this special occasion, and the phrase ГўВҖВңAnd he was speechlessГўВҖВқ indicates that the man was without excuse.16

Elder JamesГӮВ E. Talmage provides this instructive commentary about the significance of the manГўВҖВҷs actions: ГўВҖВңThat the unrobed guest was guilty of neglect, intentional disrespect, or some more grievous offense, is plain from the context. The king at first was graciously considerate, inquiring only as to how the man had entered without a wedding garment. Had the guest been able to explain his exceptional appearance, or had he any reasonable excuse to offer, he surely would have spoken; but we are told that he remained speechless. The kingГўВҖВҷs summons had been freely extended to all whom his servants had found; but each of them had to enter the royal palace by the door; and before reaching the banquet room, in which the king would appear in person, each would be properly attired; but the deficient one, by some means had entered by another way; and not having passed the attendant sentinels at the portal, he was an intruder.ГўВҖВқ17

A Christian author, JohnГӮВ O. Reid, noted that the manГўВҖВҷs refusal to wear the wedding garment exemplified blatant ГўВҖВңdisrespect for both the king and his son.ГўВҖВқ He did not simply lack a wedding garment; rather, he chose not to wear one. He rebelliously refused to dress appropriately for the occasion. The kingГўВҖВҷs reaction was swift and decisive: ГўВҖВңBind him hand and foot, and take him away, and cast him into outer darkness; there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.ГўВҖВқ18

The kingГўВҖВҷs judgment of the man is not based primarily upon the lack of a wedding garmentГўВҖВ”but that ГўВҖВңhe was, in fact, determined not to wear one. The man ГўВҖВҰ desired the honor of attending the wedding feast, but ГўВҖВҰ did not want to follow the custom of the king. He wanted to do things his own way. His lack of proper dress revealed his inner rebellion against the king and his instructions.ГўВҖВқ19

The parable then concludes with this penetrating scripture: ГўВҖВңFor many are called, but few are chosen.ГўВҖВқ20

Interestingly, Joseph Smith made the following adjustment to this verse from Matthew in his inspired translation of the Bible: ГўВҖВңFor many are called, but few are chosen; wherefore all do not have on the wedding garment.ГўВҖВқ21

The invitation to the wedding feast and the choice to partake in the feast are related but different. The invitation is to all men and women. An individual may even accept the invitation and sit down at the feastГўВҖВ”yet not be chosen to partake because he or she does not have the appropriate wedding garment of converting faith in the Lord Jesus and His divine grace. Thus, we have both GodГўВҖВҷs call and our individual response to that call, and many may be called but few chosen.22

To be or to become chosen is not an exclusive status conferred upon us. Rather, you and I ultimately can choose to be chosen through the righteous exercise of our moral agency.

Please note the use of the word chosen in the following familiar verses from the Doctrine and Covenants:

ГўВҖВңBehold, there are many called, but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen?

ГўВҖВңBecause their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men.ГўВҖВқ23

I believe the implication of these verses is quite straightforward. God does not have a list of favorites to which we must hope our names will someday be added. He does not limit ГўВҖВңthe chosenГўВҖВқ to a restricted few. Instead, our hearts, our desires, our honoring of sacred gospel covenants and ordinances, our obedience to the commandments, and, most importantly, the SaviorГўВҖВҷs redeeming grace and mercy determine whether we are counted as one of GodГўВҖВҷs chosen.24

ГўВҖВңFor we labor diligently to write, to persuade our children, and also our brethren, to believe in Christ, and to be reconciled to God; for we know that it is by grace that we are saved, after all we can do.ГўВҖВқ25

In the busyness of our daily lives and in the commotion of the contemporary world in which we live, we may be distracted from the eternal things that matter the most by making pleasure, prosperity, popularity, and prominence our primary priorities. Our short-term preoccupation with ГўВҖВңthe things of this worldГўВҖВқ and ГўВҖВңthe honors of menГўВҖВқ may lead us to forfeit our spiritual birthright for far less than a mess of pottage.26

I repeat the admonition of the Lord to His people delivered through the Old Testament prophet Haggai: ГўВҖВңNow therefore thus saith the Lord of hosts; Consider your ways.ГўВҖВқ27

Each of us should evaluate our temporal and spiritual priorities sincerely and prayerfully to identify the things in our lives that may impede the bounteous blessings that Heavenly Father and the Savior are willing to bestow upon us. And surely the Holy Ghost will help us to see ourselves as we really are.28

As we appropriately seek for the spiritual gift of eyes to see and ears to hear,29 I promise that we will be blessed with the capacity and judgment to strengthen our covenant connection with the living Lord. We also will receive the power of godliness in our lives30ГўВҖВ”and ultimately be both called to and chosen for the LordГўВҖВҷs feast.

ГўВҖВңAwake, awake; put on thy strength, O Zion.ГўВҖВқ31

ГўВҖВңFor Zion must increase in beauty, and in holiness; her borders must be enlarged; her stakes must be strengthened; yea, verily I say unto you, Zion must arise and put on her beautiful garments.ГўВҖВқ32

I joyfully declare my witness of the divinity and living reality of God, our Eternal Father, and of His Beloved Son, Jesus Christ. I testify that Jesus Christ is our Savior and Redeemer and that He lives. And I also witness that the Father and the Son appeared to the boy Joseph Smith, thus initiating the Restoration of the SaviorГўВҖВҷs gospel in the latter days. May each of us seek for and be blessed with eyes to see and ears to hear, I pray in the sacred name of the Lord Jesus Christ, amen.