Title: Sustaining of General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers
Speaker: Presented by President Henry B. Eyring
Calling: 
Date: October 2022
URL: https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference/2022/10/21eyring?lang=eng

Brothers and sisters, it is my privilege to present the General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers of the Church for your sustaining vote.

Please express your support in the usual way wherever you may be. If there are those who oppose any of the proposals, we ask that you contact your stake president.

It is proposed that we sustain Russell Marion Nelson as prophet, seer, and revelator and President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; Dallin Harris Oaks as First Counselor in the First Presidency; and Henry Bennion Eyring as Second Counselor in the First Presidency.

Those in favor may manifest it.

Those opposed, if any, may manifest it.

It is proposed that we sustain Dallin H. Oaks as President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles and M. Russell Ballard as Acting President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles.

Those in favor, please signify.

Any opposed may manifest it.

It is proposed that we sustain the following as members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles: M. Russell Ballard, Jeffrey R. Holland, Dieter F. Uchtdorf, David A. Bednar, Quentin L. Cook, D. Todd Christofferson, Neil L. Andersen, Ronald A. Rasband, Gary E. Stevenson, Dale G. Renlund, Gerrit W. Gong, and Ulisses Soares.

Those in favor, please manifest it.

Any opposed may so indicate.

It is proposed that we sustain the counselors in the First Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles as prophets, seers, and revelators.

All in favor, please manifest it.

Contrary, if there be any, by the same sign.

We have released Elders Weatherford T. Clayton, LeGrand R. Curtis Jr., Randy D. Funk, Christoffel Golden, Walter F. González, Larry S. Kacher, Lynn G. Robbins, and Joseph W. Sitati as General Authority Seventies and grant them emeritus status.

Those who wish to express gratitude to these brethren and to their wives and families for their years of dedicated service may do so by the uplifted hand.

We also note with appreciation the Area Seventies who have completed their service during this past year and whose names can be found on newsroom.ChurchofJesusChrist.org.

Those who wish to join in expressing gratitude to these brethren for their excellent service may manifest it.

It is proposed that we sustain the other General Authorities and Area Seventies, including six new Area Seventies announced earlier this week on newsroom.ChurchofJesusChrist.org, and the General Officers as presently constituted.

All in favor may do so by the uplifted hand.

Those opposed, if any.

Thank you, brothers and sisters, for your continued faith and prayers on behalf of the leadership of the Church.

The following Area Seventies were sustained during a leadership session held as part of general conference:

Ricardo J. Battista, Willy Binene, Bernhard Cziesla, Nathan R. Emery, Sione Tuione, Yves S. Weidmann.

The following Area Seventies were released on August 1, 2022:

Luis R. Arbizú, Michael V. Beheshti, David A. Benalcázar, Berne S. Broadbent, Kevin E. Calderwood, Luciano Cascardi, Ting Tsung Chang, Ariel E. Chaparro, Pablo H. Chavez, Raymond A. Cutler, José L. Del Guerso, Alessandro Dini Ciacci, Carlos R. Fusco Jr., Jorge A. García, Gary F. Gessel, Karl D. Hirst, Ren S. Johnson, Jay B. Jones, Paul N. Lekias, Artur J. Miranda, Elie K. Monga, A. Fabio Moscoso, Yutaka Nagatomo, Juan C. Pozo, Anthony Quaisie, Martin C. Rios, Sandino Roman, Johnny F. Ruiz, Rosendo Santos, Gordon H. Smith, K. Roy Tunnicliffe.

Elder Levi W. Heath and Elder ‘Inoke F. Kupu, who were serving as Area Seventies, passed away in 2022.